Re-added code to clean branch (JavaScript Desktop Wallet) (#1964)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: content/tutorials/build-apps/build-a-desktop-wallet-in-javascript.md

 */
const createWindow = () => {

  // Creates the application window
  const appWindow = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 1024,
    height: 768
  })

  // Loads a layout
  appWindow.loadFile(path.join(__dirname, 'view', 'template.html'))

  return appWindow
}

// Here we have to wait for the application to signal that it is ready
// to execute our code. In this case we just create a main window.
app.whenReady().then(() => {
  createWindow()
})
```

4. Make a new folder named `view` in the root directory of the project.

5. Now, inside the `view` folder, add a `template.html` file with the following content:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self'; script-src 'self'" />
  <meta http-equiv="X-Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self'; script-src 'self'" />
  <title>XRPL Wallet Tutorial (JavaScript / Electron)</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h3>Build a XRPL Wallet</h3>
  <span>Hello world!</span>

</body>

</html>
```
6. Now, start the application with the following command:

```console
npm run start
```

> 

Reviewer: Adding in expected values so they know they did it right :)

```suggestion

You should see a window appear that displays the text "Build a XRPL Wallet" and "Hello world!"
```

> To run th reference application found in `content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js` for this step, run:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
To run the reference application found in `content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js` for this step, run:
```

    },
    // Step 1 code additions - end
  })
```

3. Now in the `view` folder, create a file `preload.js`with the following content:

```javascript
const { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } = require('electron');

// Expose functionality from main process (aka. "backend") to be used by the renderer process(aka. "backend")
contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  // By calling "onUpdateLedgerIndex" in the frontend process we can now attach a callback function to
  // by making onUpdateLedgerIndex available at the window level.
  // The subscribed function gets triggered whenever the backend process triggers the event 'update-ledger-index'
  onUpdateLedgerIndex: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-ledger-index', callback)
  }
})
```

This preloader script is used to expose functions to the browsers window object which can be used to subscribe frontend logic to events broadcast from the main logic in `index.js`.

In the browser, `window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerIndex(callback)` can now be used tp pass a callback function via `ipcRenderer.on('eventName', callback)` that will be triggered by `appWindow.webContents.send('eventName', value)`.

> 4. Now, in `view/template.html`, modify the line responsible for displaying the static text "Hello world!" to contain a placeholder for the ledger:index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Now, in `view/template.html`, replace the body in order to show a placeholder for the ledger index instead of "Hello world!"
```

```html
<body>
    <!-- Step 1 code modifications - start -->
    <h3>Build a XRPL Wallet</h3>
    Latest validated ledger index: <strong id="ledger-index"></strong>
    <!-- Step 1 code modifications - end -->
</body>
```

5. In `view/template.html` add the following line at the bottom of the file:

```html
</body>
<!-- Step 1 code additions - start -->
<script src="renderer.js"></script>
<!-- Step 1 code additions - end -->
</html>
```

6. Now create the `renderer.js` file in the `view`folder with the following code:

```javascript
const ledgerIndexEl = document.getElementById('ledger-index')

// Here we define the callback function that performs the content update
// whenever 'update-ledger-index' is called by the main process
window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerIndex((_event, value) => {
    ledgerIndexEl.innerText = value
})
```

> 7. To wire up our main application to send the ledger index to the frontend, modify `index.js` by adding the following snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. To wire up our main application to send the ledger index to the frontend, modify `index.js` by adding the following snippet replacing the last section in the file:
```

```javascript
// Here we have to wait for the application to signal that it is ready
// to execute our code. In this case we create a main window, query
// the ledger for its latest index and submit the result to the main
// window where it will be displayed
app.whenReady().then(() => {
  // Step 1 code additions - start
  const appWindow = createWindow()
  
  getValidatedLedgerIndex().then((value) => {
    appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value)
  })

>   // Step 2 code additions - end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Step 1 code additions - end
```

  
})
```

> Here we first call our helper function `getValidatedLedgerIndex()` and then broadcast an event named `update-ledger-index` and an attached payload which can be handled by the frontend. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we first call our helper function `getValidatedLedgerIndex()` and then broadcast an event named `update-ledger-index`. This attaches a payload containing the latest ledger information which can be handled by the frontend. 
```

Reviewer: Adding a bit of context of what information is in the payload since that could have all sorts of information.

> This example shows how to do Inter Process Communication (IPC) in Electron. Technically, JavaScript has no true parallel processes or threading, because it follows a single-threaded event-driven paradigm. Nonetheless Electron provides us with two IPC modules called `ipcMain` and `ipcRenderer`. We can roughly equate those two to a backend process and a frontend process when we think in terms of client-server applications. It works as follows:

Reviewer: Removing extra comma and spelling out which one is backend / frontend more directly
```suggestion
This example shows how to do Inter Process Communication (IPC) in Electron. Technically, JavaScript has no true parallel processes or threading because it follows a single-threaded event-driven paradigm. Nonetheless Electron provides us with two IPC modules called `ipcMain` and `ipcRenderer`. We can roughly equate `ipcMain` to a backend process and `ipcRenderer` to a frontend process when we think in terms of client-server applications. It works as follows:
```

> 1. We started by creating a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events via the ContextBridge (in `view/preload.js`)

Reviewer: Add the function name
```suggestion
1. We started by creating a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events via the `ContextBridge` (`onUpdateLedgerIndex` in `view/preload.js`)
```

2. Then we make the function available by putting it in a preloader script to ensure it is loaded and can be used by the frontend.
3. On the frontend, we can then use that function to attach a callback that handles frontend updates when the event is dispatched. We could do this in the console, in a `<script>` tag in the frontend or in our case in a separate file.

> 5. Lastly, we dispatch the event from the main logic in `index.js`via `appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value)`.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
4. Lastly, we dispatch the event from the main logic in `index.js`via `appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value)`.
```

To get the application running at this early stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run start

> ```

Reviewer: Could you add an expected value for each of these "final" steps so they know what to look for? (Downloading & running the reference code seems like a lot of extra steps to verify they're doing ok, when in practice just knowing one thing to look for is enough. 

Ex. "You should see something like 'Latest validated ledger index: 39296259' the number will be different since it is the latest ledger index as of when the app started. We'll make it continuously update later on."

Author: Good idea, i did that for every step. Gonna close it  with that.

> To run th reference application found in `content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js` for this step, run:

Reviewer: Seems the missing `e` in `the` happens in multiple spots - searching for "th " should help you find them.

```suggestion
To run the reference application found in `content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js` for this step, run:
```

Author: Done

```console
npm run ledger-index
```

### 2. Show Ledger Updates by using WebSocket subscriptions

**Full code for this step:** 
[`2_async-subscribe.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/2_async-subscribe.js),
[`view/2_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_preload.js),
[`view/2_async-subscribe.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_async.html),
[`view/2_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_renderer.js).

Our application so far only shows the latest validated ledger sequence at the time when we opened it. Let's take things up a notch and add some dashboard like functionality where our wallet app will keep in sync with the ledger and display the latest specs and stats like a clock that is keeping track of time. The result will look something like this:

![Screenshot: Step 2, show ledger updates](img/javascript-wallet-2.png)

> 1. In `index.js` remove the `getValidatedLedgerIndex` function. Then update the `app.whenReady().then()` section at the bottom of the file section in the following way:

Reviewer: This should be two steps

Author: Done

2. Then, update `preload.js` by renaming the `onUpdateLedgerIndex` to `onUpdateLedgerData` and the `update-ledger-index` event to `update-ledger-data`:

```javascript
const { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } = require('electron');

contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  onUpdateLedgerData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-ledger-data', callback)
  }
})
```

This renaming might seem a bit nit-picky, but now we actually pass on an object of values instead of a single integer.

3. Next, modify the `view/template.html` file by adding placeholders to the `<body>` section:

```html
<body>
    <!-- Step 2 code additions - start -->
    <h3>Build a XRPL Wallet - Part 2/8</h3>
    Latest validated ledger <br />
    Ledger Index: <strong id="ledger-index"></strong><br />
    Ledger Hash: <strong id="ledger-hash"></strong><br />
    Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br />
    <!-- Step 2 code additions - end -->
</body>
```

> 4. Modify the `view/render.js` file to handle the new placeholders. Note that the renamed preloader function is now reflected in `window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerData`:

Reviewer: I think this filename is slightly off
```suggestion
4. Modify the `view/renderer.js` file to handle the new placeholders. Note that the renamed preloader function is now reflected in `window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerData`:
```

Author: Done

```javascript
const ledgerIndexEl = document.getElementById('ledger-index')
const ledgerHashEl = document.getElementById('ledger-hash')
const ledgerCloseTimeEl = document.getElementById('ledger-close-time')

window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerData((_event, value) => {
    ledgerIndexEl.innerText = value.ledger_index
    ledgerHashEl.innerText = value.ledger_hash
    ledgerCloseTimeEl.innerText = value.ledger_time
})
```

This should make our application listen to regular updates of the ledger and display them in the frontend.

Now run the application with the following command:

```console
npm run start
```

> 

Reviewer: At this point "Latest validated ledger" seems like it should have information, but it's just there as a title. It should probably be an <h3> or something to differentiate it from the rest of the information.
![Uploading image.png…]()

Author: Ah, ok got it, it is a formatting issue where what should be a headline blurs into the stats as it looks the same. Fixed in tutorial and reference app.

    // Step 3 code modifications - end
  })
}
```

As the account we want to query is known only after the user enters an address, we had to wrap our application logic into an event handler:

```javascript
ipcMain.on('address-entered', async (event, address) =>  {
  // ...
})
```

In addition to the subscription to the ledger stream we also can subscribe the client to specific addresses, and we use this feature here to subscribe to an account address which we are going to prompt the user for:

```javascript
await client.request({
  "command": "subscribe",
  "streams": ["ledger"],
  "accounts": [address]
})
```

After this subscription our code attached listeners to the `ledgerClosed` and the `transactions` event. As soon as a `transaction` event is triggered, we do an `account_info` request to get the latest account status, as a transaction is an operation that changes the accounts state.

In addition to the subscriptions we added each an initial `ledger` and `accountInfo` request to have some data at application startup, otherwise we would see empty fields until something happened on the ledger which would trigger one of our subscriptions.

> 4. Now, add the following code to `preload.js`:

Reviewer: nit: It seems like this is asking the user to replace code instead of add
```suggestion
4. Now, in `preload.js` replace the exposed functions with:
```

Reviewer: Same thing happens in step 4

Author: No, ist explicitly says which part of the code is added on top of the last step. Last time I only had the code that was to be added, only that the rest of the functions that were not explicitly mentioned were deleted.

On, startup, the application should display a simple dialog prompting the user for an XRPL account address. After entering the address the application should display some basic information about that account and about the ledger.

To run the reference application found in `content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js` for this step, run:

```console
npm run account
```

### 4. Show Account's Transactions

**Full code for this step:** 
[`4_tx-history.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/4_tx-history.js).
[`library/3_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/3_helper.js).
[`library/4_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/4_helper.js).
[`view/4_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/4_tx-preload.js).

> [`view/4_tx-history.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/4_tx-history.html).

Reviewer: nit: `tx-history.html` should follow the same naming convention as the rest using underscores consistently throughout. Mixing `-` and `_` gets a bit confusing. (Same for the other names in the repo)

Reviewer: Also, I got a bit confused thinking that `4_tx-history.html` was it's own separate file until I clicked into it and realized it was the updated `template.html` - I'd recommend renaming it to `4_template.html` (and applying that pattern to the other "html" updates in each step.

[`5_password.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/5_password.js).
[`library/3_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/3_helper.js).
[`library/4_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/4_helper.js).
[`library/5_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/5_helper.js).
[`view/5_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/5_tx-preload.js).
[`view/5_password.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/5_password.html).
[`view/5_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/5_tx-renderer.js).

After finishing this step the application should look like this:

![Screenshot: Step 5, use salted password](img/javascript-wallet-5.png)

> By now we always query the user for an account address at application startup. We more or less have a monitoring tool for accounts that queries publicly available data. Because we want to have real wallet functionality including sending XRP, we will have to deal with private keys and seeds, which will have to be handled properly.

Reviewer: nit: The last bit was said already in this paragraph
```suggestion
By now we always query the user for an account address at application startup. We more or less have a monitoring tool for accounts that queries publicly available data. Because we want to have real wallet functionality including sending XRP, we will have to deal with private keys and seeds.
```

> In this step we will query the user for an account seed and  a password save this seed with a salted password. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step we will query the user for a seed and a password they can use to access it later. In order to protect the password, we'll add a [salt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_(cryptography)) to the password. 
```

1. In the `library` folder, add a new file `5_helpers.js` with the following content:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/5_helpers.js", language="js") }}

2. Modify the import section at the top of `index.js` to look like this:

```javascript

> const xrpl = require("xrpl")
> const { initialize, subscribe, saveSaltedSeed, loadSaltedSeed } = require('./library/5_helpers')

Reviewer: I accidentally overwrote all my imports here because I thought we were simplifying all the imports to a single line. By adding the top imports back in it makes it safer to copy + paste over the whole import section :)
```suggestion
const {app, BrowserWindow, ipcMain} = require('electron')
const fs = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const xrpl = require("xrpl")
const { initialize, subscribe, saveSaltedSeed, loadSaltedSeed } = require('./library/5_helpers')
```

    seed = providedSeed
    appWindow.webContents.send('open-password-dialog')
  })

  ipcMain.on('password-entered', async (event, password) => {
    if (!fs.existsSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR , 'seed.txt'))) {
      saveSaltedSeed('../' + WALLET_DIR, seed, password)
    } else {
      seed = loadSaltedSeed('../' + WALLET_DIR, password)
    }

    const wallet = xrpl.Wallet.fromSeed(seed)

    const client = new xrpl.Client(TESTNET_URL)

    await client.connect()

    await subscribe(client, wallet, appWindow)

    await initialize(client, wallet, appWindow)
  })

  // We have to wait for the application frontend to be ready, otherwise
  // we might run into a race condition and the open-dialog events
  // get triggered before the callbacks are attached
  appWindow.once('ready-to-show', () => {
    // If there is no seed present yet, ask for it, otherwise query for the password
    // for the seed that has been saved
    if (!fs.existsSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR, 'seed.txt'))) {
      appWindow.webContents.send('open-seed-dialog')
    } else {
      appWindow.webContents.send('open-password-dialog')
    }
  })
}
```

> The subscription to the `address-entered` frontend is gone, as we are now going to use a full-fledged wallet, for which we are going to prompt the user or a seed and a password to encrypt it with. If there already is a seed, the user will only be asked for his password which is in turn used to decrypt the seed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are now making this a full-fledged wallet, instead of asking the user for an address we will now be prompting the user for a seed and password to encrypt the seed. If there is already a seed, the user will only be asked for their password.```

3. Then modify the `view/preload.js` file (Note that the `onEnterAccountAddress` function is no longer needed):

```javascript
contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  // Step 5 code additions - start
  onOpenSeedDialog: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('open-seed-dialog', callback)
  },
  onEnterSeed: (seed) => {
    ipcRenderer.send('seed-entered', seed)
  },
  onOpenPasswordDialog: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('open-password-dialog', callback)
  },
  onEnterPassword: (password) => {
    ipcRenderer.send('password-entered', password)
  },
  // Step 5 code additions - end

  onUpdateLedgerData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-ledger-data', callback)

>   },

Reviewer: Closing brackets make it easier to copy + paste over the whole `contextBridge` :)
```suggestion
  },
})
```

Reviewer: Nevermind, I'm wrong

```

> 4. Then, in `view/templte.html`, replace the existing HTML dialog element for the account with the new ones for seed and password:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Then, in `view/template.html`, replace the existing HTML dialog element for the account with the new ones for seed and password:
```

                <button type="submit">Confirm</button>
            </div>
        </form>
    </dialog>

    <dialog id="password-dialog">
        <form method="dialog">
            <div>
                <label for="password-input">Enter password (min-length 5):</label>
                <input type="text" id="password-input" name="password-input" />
            </div>
            <div>
                <button type="submit">Confirm</button>
            </div>
        </form>
    </dialog>
```

6. In `view/renderer.js` add at the top:

```javascript
window.electronAPI.onOpenSeedDialog((_event) => {
    const seedDialog = document.getElementById('seed-dialog');
    const seedInput = seedDialog.querySelector('input');
    const submitButton = seedDialog.querySelector('button[type="submit"]');

    submitButton.addEventListener('click', () => {
        const seed = seedInput.value;
        window.electronAPI.onEnterSeed(seed)
        seedDialog.close()
    });

    seedDialog.showModal()
})

window.electronAPI.onOpenPasswordDialog((_event) => {
    const passwordDialog = document.getElementById('password-dialog');
    const passwordInput = passwordDialog.querySelector('input');

>     const submitButton = passwordDialog.querySelector('button[type="submit"]');

Reviewer: I'm realizing that after we have our password, a "Change Seed" button would be very helpful in case the user forgets their password. Otherwise they have to manually delete the file where the password is stored.

Author: Done

[`6_styling.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/6_styling.js).
[`library/3_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/3_helper.js).
[`library/4_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/4_helper.js).
[`library/5_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/5_helper.js).
[`view/6_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/6_tx-preload.js).
[`view/6_styling.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/6_styling.html).
[`view/6_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/6_tx-renderer.js).

After finishing this step the application should look like this:

![Screenshot: Step 6, style application with css](img/javascript-wallet-6.png)

> 1. Copy the folder `bootstrap` and its contents to your project directory. 

Reviewer: What's the link to `bootstrap`?

Reviewer: Copying a whole folder is hard in a browser tutorial because it requires using Git to download. Instead I'd recommend using the same "copy + paste" with filenames instructions you've been using so far. `bootstrap` only has two files, even though they're long, so it should be straightforward. (Although I would want to double check that the file scrolled right instead of displaying vertically, because that'd be really bad formatting otherwise.

Reviewer: Bumping this issue

Author: I changed that to "Create a folder and add the following 4 files", directly linking their contents. I will close this one so that the "bootstrap" issue is not split into two sections here.

> 2. Also, copy the file `view/custom.css` as well as `XRPLedger_DevPortal-white.svg` to the `view`directory.

Reviewer: These should be two steps, and should have code to copy, or links to the GitHub repo for the file download

Reviewer: Also, `view/custom.css` does not exist anymore. It's now just `bootstrap/custom.css` it seems.

Reviewer: Instead of saying 'copy' - this step should also probably say 'move' since the custom.css file needs to moved out of the bootstrap folder into the view folder to work.

Reviewer: Bumping this issue

Author: So, this is now all in the bootstrap directory, the description now has a proper link, narrowed down to two steps

Reviewer: Looks good :)

> 

Reviewer: Nitpick on the styling - when you scroll to the right, the background color disappears, which is especially noticeable on the "Transactions" page after updating the css.
<img width="1026" alt="image" src="https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/19694186/8349b41e-5806-4fd1-8230-1bb6fd6caa71">

Author: Done

> 3. Change the content of `view/template.html` with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Change the content of `view/template.html` to be the following code:
```

[`view/7_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/7_preload.js).
[`view/7_send-xrp.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/7_send-xrp.html).
[`view/7_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/7_renderer.js).

Up until now we have enabled our app to query and display data from the XRPL. Now it's time to actively participate in the ledger by enabling our application to send transactions. For now, we can stick to sending direct XRP payments because there are more complexities involved in sending issued tokens. After finishing this step the application should look like this:

![Screenshot: Step 7, send xrp dialog](img/javascript-wallet-7.png)

1. Create the file `library/7_helpers.js` and add the following contents:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/7_helpers.js", language="js") }}

> 

Reviewer: For a second I was worried I missed a helper file hahaha
```suggestion
(There was no `6-helpers.js`, so don't worry!)
```

2. Add the new function to the import section in `index.js`:

```javascript
const { initialize, subscribe, saveSaltedSeed, loadSaltedSeed } = require('./library/5_helpers')
const { sendXrp } = require('./library/7_helpers')
```

3. Still in `index.js`, add an event listener handling the `send-xrp-event` from the frontend dialog:
```javascript
        await initialize(client, wallet, appWindow)
        // Step 7 code additions - start
        ipcMain.on('send-xrp-action', (event, paymentData) => {
          sendXrp(paymentData, client, wallet).then((result) => {
            appWindow.webContents.send('send-xrp-transaction-finish', result)
          })
        })
        // Step 7 code additions - start

>     })

Reviewer: The first line already sets up the proper spot to copy + paste - the closing brackets are hard to notice as "pre-existing code" because they're so far away from the other pre-existing code and are more 'punctuation' - When I did the copy + paste it took me a second to realize that I had added extra brackets.
```suggestion
```

```

4. Modify `view/preload.js` by adding two new functions:
```javascript
    onClickSendXrp: (paymentData) => {
      ipcRenderer.send('send-xrp-action', paymentData)
    },
    onSendXrpTransactionFinish: (callback) => {
      ipcRenderer.on('send-xrp-transaction-finish', callback)
    }
```

5. In `view/template.html`, add a button to toggle the modal dialog housing the "Send XRP" logic:
```html
    <div class="header border-bottom">
        <h3>
            Build a XRPL Wallet
            <small class="text-muted">- Part 7/8</small>
        </h3>
        <button type="button" class="btn btn-primary" id="send-xrp-modal-button">
            Send XRP
        </button>
    </div>
```

> 6. In the same file, add said modal dialog:

Reviewer: Where should this be added in the file?

Reviewer: (In the example it seems it's added to the end of `<main>`

Author: Done

                    <div class="input-group mb-3">
                        <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="r9jEyy3nrB8D7uRc5w2k3tizKQ1q8cpeHU" id="input-destination-address">
                        <span class="input-group-text">To (Address)</span>
                    </div>
                    <div class="input-group mb-3">
                        <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="12345" id="input-destination-tag">
                        <span class="input-group-text">Destination Tag</span>
                    </div>
                    <div class="input-group mb-3">
                        <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="100" id="input-xrp-amount">
                        <span class="input-group-text">Amount of XRP</span>
                    </div>
                </div>
                <div class="modal-footer">
                    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-bs-dismiss="modal">Cancel</button>
                    <button type="button" class="btn btn-primary" id="send-xrp-submit-button">Send</button>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
```

> 7. Update `view/renderer.js` by adding:

Reviewer: Having the location helps
```suggestion
7. Add the following code to the bottom of `view/renderer.js`:
```

```javascript
const modalButton = document.getElementById('send-xrp-modal-button')
const modalDialog = new bootstrap.Modal(document.getElementById('send-xrp-modal'))
modalButton.addEventListener('click', () => {
    modalDialog.show()
})

const destinationAddressEl = document.getElementById('input-destination-address')
const destinationTagEl = document.getElementById('input-destination-tag')
const amountEl = document.getElementById('input-xrp-amount')
const sendXrpButtonEl = document.getElementById('send-xrp-submit-button')

sendXrpButtonEl.addEventListener('click', () => {
    modalDialog.hide()
    const destinationAddress = destinationAddressEl.value
    const destinationTag = destinationTagEl.value
    const amount = amountEl.value

    window.electronAPI.onClickSendXrp({destinationAddress, destinationTag, amount})
})

window.electronAPI.onSendXrpTransactionFinish((_event) => {
    destinationAddressEl.value = ''
    destinationTagEl.value = ''
    amountEl.value = ''
})
```

Now, Run the following command:

```console
npm run start

> ```

Reviewer: I still have `openAccountAddressDialog` in my `renderer.js` at this point - is that something I should've removed by now? (It's from step 4 `renderer.js`)

<img width="1026" alt="image" src="https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/19694186/4e405a17-02a4-452b-9931-011f3b032e5f">

<img width="1026" alt="image" src="https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/19694186/bc3869ac-c33b-4336-b91a-d87c8d14308f">

Author: Done, added replace-instructions to Step 5

> 

Reviewer: Just for testing the app out, I think it'd be helpful if someone were to just click "Send XRP" then "Send" without changing any of the defaults, it should actually use those defaults. (So sending to the "faded text address" 100 XRP. Having to go find your own address seems like an extra step, so if we want them to do that we should explain how to find a testnet address.

Author: Done, switched the placeholders to prefilled values and added a section on how to get a new account address. Also added an alert that indicates the transaction result so that the user has at least some feedback.

Reviewer: Awesome :)

[`library/5_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/5_helper.js).
[`library/6_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/6_helper.js).
[`library/7_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/7_helper.js).
[`library/8_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/8_helper.js).
[`view/8_prelaod.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/8_preload.js).
[`view/8_domain-verification.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/8_domain-verification.html).
[`view/8_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/8_renderer.js).

> One of the biggest shortcomings of the wallet app from the previous step is that it doesn't provide a lot of protections or feedback for users to save them from human error and scams. These sorts of protections are extra important when dealing with the cryptocurrency space, because decentralized systems like the XRP Ledger don't have an admin or support team one can ask to cancel or refund a payment if one made a mistake such as sending it to the wrong address. This step shows how to add some checks on destination addresses to warn the user before sending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the biggest shortcomings of the wallet app from the previous step is that it doesn't provide a lot of protections or feedback for users to save them from human error and scams. These sorts of protections are extra important when dealing with the cryptocurrency space because decentralized systems like the XRP Ledger don't have an admin or support team one can ask to cancel or refund a payment if you made a mistake such as sending it to the wrong address. 

This step shows how to add some checks on destination addresses to warn the user before sending XRP.
```

One type of check we could make is to verify the domain name associated with an XRP Ledger address; this is called [account domain verification](xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification). When an account's domain is verified, we can could show it like this:

![Screenshot: Step 8, use domain verification](img/javascript-wallet-8.png)

1. In the `library` folder, add a new file `4_helpers.js`. Then add the following contents to that file:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/8_helpers.js", language="js") }}

> The code in the helper class basically issues an [`account_info`](account_info.html) request to look up the account in the ledger.

Reviewer: nit: Reword to be active
```suggestion
The code in `8_helpers.js` looks up the account on the ledger by sending an [`account_info`](account_info.html) request.
```

> If the account does exist, the code checks for the [`lsfDisallowXRP` flag](accountroot.html#accountroot-flags). Note that this is an `lsf` (ledger state flag) value because this is an object from the ledger state data; these are different than the flag values the [AccountSet transaction][] uses to configure the same settings.

Reviewer: Why does it look for that flag? (The paragraph seems to shift focus from explaining what the code is doing to explaining flags)

Author: Copy-pasted from the python examples... :)

Reviewer: Oops, I might want to make an issue to update those then :P 

I think you can probably just remove everything in the paragraph from "Node that this..." to "... the same settings."

Author: Done

2. Import the new helper function in`index.js`:

```javascript
const { initialize, subscribe, saveSaltedSeed, loadSaltedSeed } = require('./library/5_helpers')
const { sendXrp } = require('./library/7_helpers')
// Step 8 code additions - start
const { verify } = require('./library/8_helpers')
// Step 8 code additions - end
```

> 3. At the end of the callback function `ipcMain.on('send-xrp-action', callback)` add the following event handler:

Reviewer: At the end of implies that it's part of the same function, but it seems to be a separate entry entirely.
```suggestion
3. After the callback function `ipcMain.on('send-xrp-action', callback)` add the following event handler:
```

Reviewer: Also, which file is this? (Are we still modifying `index.js`?)

```javascript
ipcMain.on('send-xrp-action', (event, paymentData) => {
  sendXrp(paymentData, client, wallet).then((result) => {
    appWindow.webContents.send('send-xrp-transaction-finish', result)
  })
})

// Step 8 code additions - start
ipcMain.on('destination-account-change', (event, destinationAccount) => {
  verify(destinationAccount, client).then((result) => {
    appWindow.webContents.send('update-domain-verification-data', result)
  })
})
// Step 8 code additions - end
```

3. Modify `view/preload.js` and add the following two functions to `'electronAPI'`:

```javascript
onDestinationAccountChange: (callback) => {
  ipcRenderer.send('destination-account-change', callback)
},
onUpdateDomainVerificationData: (callback) => {
  ipcRenderer.on('update-domain-verification-data', callback)
}
```

Finally, the code decodes the account's `Domain` field, if present, and performs domain verification using the method imported above.

> 4. Update the view logic - in `view/template.html` add the following lines just before the `<input>` element with `id="input-destination-address`:

Reviewer: The new code fully replaces the old one it seems
```suggestion
4. Replace `<input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="r9jEyy3nrB8D7uRc5w2k3tizKQ1q8cpeHU" id="input-destination-address">` with the following code:
```

Reviewer: It also seems to replace the `span`, not sure the best way to describe what you want to happen here. Maybe it'd make sense to just replace this whole div? 
```
<div class="input-group mb-3">
                        <div class="input-group mb-3">
                            <div class="accountVerificationIndicator">
                                <span>Verification status:</span>
                            </div>
                            <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="rn95xwUymaMyzAKnZUGuynjZ6qk9RzV4Q7" id="input-destination-address">
                            <!-- Step 8 code additions - start -->
                            <span class="input-group-text">To (Address)</span>
                            <!-- Step 8 code additions - start -->
                        </div>
                        <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="r9jEyy3nrB8D7uRc5w2k3tizKQ1q8cpeHU" id="input-destination-address">
                    </div>
```
(Post-edit code above - would need to replace pre-edit code)

Reviewer: Also having two `Step 8 code additions - start` is confusing (as in basically every other situation it's `start` then `end`, so I didn't expect both to be `start`.

Reviewer: I definitely messed up my copy + paste here somehow because I ended up with two "To Address" fields... Ended up just resetting to the provided 'answer' for the `template.html` file to keep testing other things.

Author: I redid that section, the inline code comments were very skewed.

Author: @JST5000 I leave that open for now in case you need to recover that code

Author: ```html
<div class="input-group mb-3">
    <!-- Step 8 code additions - start -->
    <div class="accountVerificationIndicator">
        <span>Verification status:</span>
    </div>
    <!-- Step 8 code additions - end -->
    <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="rP4zcp52pa7ZjhjtU9LrnFcitBUadNW8Xz" id="input-destination-address">
    <span class="input-group-text">To (Address)</span>
</div>
```

Author: Ok, should be done by now

// Step 8 code additions - end

const destinationAddressEl = document.getElementById('input-destination-address')
const destinationTagEl = document.getElementById('input-destination-tag')
const amountEl = document.getElementById('input-xrp-amount')
const sendXrpButtonEl = document.getElementById('send-xrp-submit-button')

// Step 8 code additions - start
destinationAddressEl.addEventListener('input', (event) => {
    window.electronAPI.onDestinationAccountChange(destinationAddressEl.value)
})

window.electronAPI.onUpdateDomainVerificationData((_event, result) => {
    accountVerificationEl.textContent = `Domain: ${result.domain || 'n/a'} Verified: ${result.verified}`
})
// Step 8 code additions - end

sendXrpButtonEl.addEventListener('click', () => {
    modalDialog.hide()
    const destinationAddress = destinationAddressEl.value
    const destinationTag = destinationTagEl.value
    const amount = amountEl.value

    window.electronAPI.onClickSendXrp({destinationAddress, destinationTag, amount})
})
```

The updated preloader `view/8_preloader.js` is also modified the same way by adding the following two event listeners:

`view/8_preload.js`

> {{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/8_preload.js", language="js", lines="33-38") }}

Reviewer: I'm confused what the point of these lines are, I think they can be deleted.

Author: Seems to be a leftover doublet after I restructured the Steps to handle files in the same order

Author: Done

Run the following command:

```console
npm run start
```

Test your wallet app the same way you did in the previous steps. It should display a hint about the receiving account when opening up the "Send XRP" dialog and entering the address. To test domain verification, try entering the following addresses in the "To" box of the Send XRP dialog:

| Address                              | Domain       | Verified? |
|:-------------------------------------|:-------------|:----------|
| `rsA2LpzuawewSBQXkiju3YQTMzW13pAAdW` | `mduo13.com` | ✅ Yes    |

> | `rf1BiGeXwwQoi8Z2ueFYTEXSwuJYfV2Jpn` | `xrpl.org`   | ❌ No     |

Reviewer: For this example, it says `domain domain` instead of `domain: xrpl.org` - 
<img width="576" alt="image" src="https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/19694186/92528060-d031-4d37-9984-9ddcbf2389ca">

Author: This is the payload from the request: 

```json
{
  Account: 'rf1BiGeXwwQoi8Z2ueFYTEXSwuJYfV2Jpn',
  Balance: '2939037790',
  Domain: '7872706C2E6F7267',
  Flags: 0,
  LedgerEntryType: 'AccountRoot',
  OwnerCount: 0,
  PreviousTxnID: 'A60DA1A18654422FB7FAC14F405AEFAE9B90B3C773978EDC702FA6AA1D37C292',
  PreviousTxnLgrSeq: 38126630,
  Sequence: 2,
  index: '13F1A95D7AAB7108D5CE7EEAF504B2894B8C674E6D68499076441C4837282BF8'
}
```

Not sure if this is an error on our end...

Reviewer: I think it's an error on our end because the domain '7872706C2E6F7267' decodes to `xrpl.org` via ascii, so I think that's fine. It showing up as `domain` is odd.

Author: Ah, here it is:

![image](https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/102560752/f3121412-ec75-48b2-b0db-69be6064b4c5)

Author: I leave it open, should xrpl.org return a .toml file? I added a status check, so the displayed result is correct now. I assumed xrpl.org would return a .toml file, is that correct?

Reviewer: Looks good now :)

| `rPT1Sjq2YGrBMTttX4GZHjKu9dyfzbpAYe` | (Not set)    | ❌ No     |

To test X-addresses, try the following addresses:

| Address                                           | Destination Tag | Test Net? |
|:--------------------------------------------------|:----------------|:----------|
| `T7YChPFWifjCAXLEtg5N74c7fSAYsvPKxzQAET8tbZ8q3SC` | 0               | Yes       |
| `T7YChPFWifjCAXLEtg5N74c7fSAYsvJVm6xKZ14AmjegwRM` | None            | Yes       |
| `X7d3eHCXzwBeWrZec1yT24iZerQjYLjJrFT7A8ZMzzYWCCj` | 0               | No        |
| `X7d3eHCXzwBeWrZec1yT24iZerQjYLeTFXz1GU9RBnWr7gZ` | None            | No        |

> | `X7d3eHCXzwBeWrZec1yT24iZerQjYLeTFXz1GU9RBnWr7gZ` | None            | No        |

Reviewer: I don't think this part is necessary

Author: I've removed it, I think we got the point across at this point

To run the reference application, run:

```console
npm run domain-verification
```

> 

Reviewer: I'd recommend adding one last section congratulating them for completing the tutorial, summarizing a couple things they were able to accomplish.

Author: Done

## Next Steps & Topics for further research

- Error Handling 

> - Building the App

Reviewer: I'd recommend removing this `## Next Steps` section - I think it's better to end on a congratulations and summary instead of more things to do since this is an extensive tutorial.

Author: Done

![Screenshot: Step 2, show ledger updates](img/javascript-wallet-2.png)

1. In `index.js` remove the `getValidatedLedgerIndex` function.

2. Then update the `app.whenReady().then()` section at the bottom of the file section in the following way:

```javascript
/**
 * This function creates a XRPL client, subscribes to 'ledger' events from the XRPL and broadcasts those by
 * dispatching the 'update-ledger-data' event which will be picked up by the frontend
 *
 * @returns {Promise<void>}
 */
const main = async () => {
          const appWindow = createWindow()

          const client = new xrpl.Client(TESTNET_URL)

          await client.connect()

          // Subscribe client to 'ledger' events
          // Reference: https://xrpl.org/subscribe.html
          await client.request({
            "command": "subscribe",
            "streams": ["ledger"]
          })

          // Dispatch 'update-ledger-data' event
          client.on("ledgerClosed", async (ledger) => {
            appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-data', ledger)
          })
        }

app.whenReady().then(main)
```

> Here, we have reduced the `app.whenReady` logic to an oneliner and put the necessary functionality into a separate `main()` function. The most relevant piece of code here is the swapping of a single call to the ledger for a subscription: Our client is now connecting to the XRPL via [WebSockets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket). This establishes a permanent bidirectional connection to the XRPL, which allows us to subscribe to events that the server sends out. This saves resources on the server, which now only sends out data we explicitly asked for when a change happens, as well as the client which does not have to sort through incoming data for relevant changes. This also reduces the complexity of the application and saves us a couple of lines of code.

Reviewer: Small spelling/punctuation nitpicks
```suggestion
Here, we have reduced the `app.whenReady` logic to an one-liner and put the necessary functionality into a separate `main()` function. The most relevant piece of code here is the swapping of a single call to the ledger for a subscription. Our client is now connecting to the XRPL via [WebSockets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket). This establishes a permanent bidirectional connection to the XRPL, which allows us to subscribe to events that the server sends out. This saves resources on the server, which now only sends out data we explicitly asked for when a change happens, as well as the client which does not have to sort through incoming data for relevant changes. It also reduces the complexity of the application and saves us a couple of lines of code.
```

[`library/3_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_helper.js).
[`view/3_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_preload.js).
[`view/3_account.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_account.html).
[`view/3_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_renderer.js).

We now have a permanent connection to the XRPL and some code to bring the delivered data to life on our screen, it's time to add some "wallet" functionality by managing an individual account. 

We will ask the user for address of the account to monitor by using a HTML dialog element. We will furthermore refactor the application by encapsulating some functionality in a library. After finishing this step the application should look like this:

![Screenshot: Step 3, show account information](img/javascript-wallet-3.png)

> 1. In the project root, create a new directory named `library`. Inside this directory, create a file `3_helpers.js` with the following content:

Reviewer: This file should probably just be called `helpers.js` instead of `3_helpers.js` for the actual tutorial follow-along parts.

Author: From Step 3 on on each iteration there will be an additional helper file in order to build kind of a library. I'll leave this open for now, perhaps at the end of the tutorial it makes sense or we can come up with something better than one very large file.

Reviewer: Makes sense :)

Author: Then I can close this :)

```javascript
onEnterAccountAddress: (address) => {
    ipcRenderer.send('address-entered', address)
}
```

5. Then, modify the `view/template.html` by replacing the `<body>` with this markup: 

```html
<body>

    <h3>Build a XRPL Wallet - Part 3/8</h3>

    <fieldset>
        <legend>Account info</legend>
        Classic Address: <strong id="account-address-classic"></strong><br/>
        X-Address: <strong id="account-address-x"></strong><br/>
        XRP Balance: <strong id="account-balance"></strong><br/>
        XRP Reserved: <strong id="account-reserve"></strong><br/>
    </fieldset>

    <fieldset>
        <legend>Latest validated ledger stats</legend>
        Ledger Index: <strong id="ledger-index"></strong><br/>
        Ledger Hash: <strong id="ledger-hash"></strong><br/>
        Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br/>
    </fieldset>

    <dialog id="account-address-dialog">
        <form method="dialog">
            <div>
                <label for="address-input">Enter account address:</label>
                <input type="text" id="address-input" name="address-input" />
            </div>
            <div>

>                 <button type="reset">Reset</button>

Reviewer: I'd recommend removing the reset button - it confused me at first because I clicked it by accident thinking it was confirm, and I don't think it's necessary since you can just delete what you typed.

Author: Done

[`library/4_helper.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/4_helper.js).
[`view/4_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/4_tx-preload.js).
[`view/4_tx-history.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/4_tx-history.html).
[`view/4_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/4_tx-renderer.js).

At this point, our wallet shows the account's balance getting updated, but doesn't give us any clue about how this state came about, namely the actual transactions that caused the updates. So, our next step is to display the account's up to date transaction history using subscriptions once again:

![Screenshot: Step 4, show transaction history](img/javascript-wallet-4.png)

1. In the `library` folder, add a new file `4_helpers.js`. Then add the following helper function to that file:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/4_helpers.js", language="js") }}

> 2. Now, in `index.html`, require the new helper function at the bottom of the import section like so:

Reviewer: There is no file called `index.html` currently - did you mean `index.js`?

Author: Done, should have read my Kahnemann on that one :)

3. 
```javascript
const { prepareReserve, prepareAccountData, prepareLedgerData} = require('./library/3_helpers')
const { prepareTxData } = require('./library/4_helpers')
```

> 3. In the main file, update the listener function subscribed to the `transaction` event by adding the following snippet:

Reviewer: Being more specific about the file referred to

```suggestion
3. In `index.js`, update the listener function subscribed to the `transaction` event by adding the following snippet:
```

```javascript
// Wait for transaction on subscribed account and re-request account data
client.on("transaction", async (transaction) => {
  // Reference: https://xrpl.org/account_info.html
  const accountInfoRequest = {
    "command": "account_info",
    "account": address,
    "ledger_index": transaction.ledger_index
  }

  const accountInfoResponse = await client.request(accountInfoRequest)
  const accountData = prepareAccountData(accountInfoResponse.result.account_data, reserve)
  appWindow.webContents.send('update-account-data', accountData)

>   // Step 3 code additions - start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Step 4 code additions - start
```

Author: Done

  const transactions = prepareTxData([{tx: transaction.transaction}])
  appWindow.webContents.send('update-transaction-data', transactions)
  // Step 4 code additions - end
  
})
```

4. In `view/preload.js`, add the following code at the bottom of `exposeInMainWorld()`:

```javascript
onEnterAccountAddress: (address) => {
  ipcRenderer.send('address-entered', address)
},
onUpdateAccountData: (callback) => {
  ipcRenderer.on('update-account-data', callback)
},

// Step 4 code additions - start
onUpdateTransactionData: (callback) => {
  ipcRenderer.on('update-transaction-data', callback)
}
// Step 4 code additions - end
```

5. Modify `view/template.html` by adding a new fieldset below the ones that are already there:

```html
        ...
        Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br/>
    </fieldset>

>     <!-- Step 4 code additions - start -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <!-- Step 5 code additions - start -->
```

Author: Mh, on this one the end was wrong, I have fixed it.

                <th>To</th>
                <th>Value Delivered</th>
                <th>Hash</th>
            </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody></tbody>
        </table>
    </fieldset>
    <!-- Step 5 code additions - end -->

    <dialog id="account-address-dialog">
        <form method="dialog">
```

The table here will be filled dynamically with the accounts transactions.

6. Add the following code at the bottom of `view/renderer.js`:

```javascript
const txTableBodyEl = document.getElementById('tx-table').tBodies[0]
window.testEl = txTableBodyEl

window.electronAPI.onUpdateTransactionData((_event, transactions) => {
    for (let transaction of transactions) {
        txTableBodyEl.insertAdjacentHTML( 'beforeend',
        "<tr>" +
            "<td>" + transaction.confirmed + "</td>" +
            "<td>" + transaction.type + "</td>" +
            "<td>" + transaction.from + "</td>" +
            "<td>" + transaction.to + "</td>" +
            "<td>" + transaction.value + "</td>" +
            "<td>" + transaction.hash + "</td>" +
            "</tr>"
        )
    }
})
```

If you have come this far - congrats. Run the application by executing:

```console

> npm run start

Reviewer: Following all the steps to this point, when I type in my testnet address, nothing seems to happen. (The previous section step 3 was displaying my account information correctly)

I'm unsure why. I notice there are files in the "All files you'll need" at the beginning which are never mentioned in these instructions. Ex. `view/4_tx-history.html` is never mentioned and `4_tx-history.js` is also never mentioned. Will try to debug later.

Reviewer: Re-running through the steps still ending up in the same situation, this is the zip file I get after going through the steps to this point: 
[test3.zip](https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/files/12034891/test3.zip)

Author: Thanks for the Snapshot! So I found this one in the Dev Tools:

<img width="392" alt="image" src="https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/102560752/05bba92f-6546-45e2-83c2-61e7fa413035">

Author: Which means I will add a section on how to access the Dev Tools somewhere at the beginning of the tutorial. Sometimes when you spend a long time with something you take things for granted which one shouldn't...

Author: Ok, so the function got lost in the preloader. I added the whole block to the tutorial to prevent misunderstandings.

Author: @JST5000 I'll leave that unresolved as I suppose you can't see the comments if I resolve the conversation.

Author: In your case, this would have to be re-added in preload.js:

```javascript
onUpdateLedgerData: (callback) => {
        ipcRenderer.on('update-ledger-data', callback)
    },
```

Author: Developer Tools Tip has been added just after the instruction on how to start the "Hello world!" application

Reviewer: > Which means I will add a section on how to access the Dev Tools somewhere at the beginning of the tutorial. Sometimes when you spend a long time with something you take things for granted which one shouldn't...

Ah, I didn't realize Electron had dev tools - I wasn't thinking of it like a browser - oops!

Author: Then I can close this :)

```javascript
  // Creates the application window
  const appWindow = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 1024,
    height: 768,
    // Step 1 code additions - start
    webPreferences: {
      preload: path.join(__dirname, 'view', 'preload.js'),
    },
    // Step 1 code additions - end
  })
```

3. Now in the `view` folder, create a file `preload.js`with the following content:

```javascript
const { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } = require('electron');

// Expose functionality from main process (aka. "backend") to be used by the renderer process(aka. "backend")
contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  // By calling "onUpdateLedgerIndex" in the frontend process we can now attach a callback function to
  // by making onUpdateLedgerIndex available at the window level.
  // The subscribed function gets triggered whenever the backend process triggers the event 'update-ledger-index'
  onUpdateLedgerIndex: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-ledger-index', callback)
  }
})
```

This preloader script is used to expose functions to the browsers window object which can be used to subscribe frontend logic to events broadcast from the main logic in `index.js`.

> In the browser, `window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerIndex(callback)` can now be used tp pass a callback function via `ipcRenderer.on('eventName', callback)` that will be triggered by `appWindow.webContents.send('eventName', value)`.

Reviewer: typo:
```suggestion
In the browser, `window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerIndex(callback)` can now be used to pass a callback function via `ipcRenderer.on('eventName', callback)` that will be triggered by `appWindow.webContents.send('eventName', value)`.
```

4. Now, in `view/template.html`, replace the body in order to show a placeholder for the ledger index instead of "Hello world!"

```html
<body>
    <!-- Step 1 code modifications - start -->
    <h3>Build a XRPL Wallet</h3>
    Latest validated ledger index: <strong id="ledger-index"></strong>
    <!-- Step 1 code modifications - end -->
</body>
```

5. In `view/template.html` add the following line at the bottom of the file:

```html
</body>
<!-- Step 1 code additions - start -->
<script src="renderer.js"></script>
<!-- Step 1 code additions - end -->
</html>
```

> 6. Now create the `renderer.js` file in the `view`folder with the following code:

Reviewer: typo: missing space
```suggestion
6. Now create the `renderer.js` file in the `view` folder with the following code:
```

[`3-account/index.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/3_account.js),
[`3-account/view/preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_preload.js),
[`3-account/view/renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_renderer.js),
[`3-account/view/template.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_account.html).

We now have a permanent connection to the XRPL and some code to bring the delivered data to life on our screen, it's time to add some "wallet" functionality by managing an individual account. 

We will ask the user for address of the account to monitor by using a HTML dialog element. We will furthermore refactor the application by encapsulating some functionality in a library. After finishing this step the application should look like this:

> ![Screenshot: Step 3, show account information](img/javascript-wallet-3.png)

Reviewer: It seems like in this screenshot, and the next several screenshots we have `XRP Reserved` as a field, but it is never populated. I think either the field should not be a part of these earlier steps if there's no logic to populate it, or there should be logic to populate it.

Author: As it is never really used, I will remove it.

Author: Removed

1. In the project root, create a new directory named `library`. Inside this directory, create a file `3_helpers.js` with the following content:

`3_helpers.js`
{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/3_helpers.js", language="js") }}

Here we define three utility functions that will transform data we receive from the ledger into flat value objects for easy digestion in the frontend code. As we progress in this tutorial, we will keep this pattern of adding functionality by adding files that are prefixed by the step number.

2. Modify `index.js` and add `ipcMain` to the imports from the `require('electron')`line. Then add the new helper file at the bottom of the include section:

```javascript

> const { app, BrowserWindow, ipcMain} = require('electron')

Reviewer: The top import changes as well, so should be flagged
```suggestion
// Step 3 code additions - start
const { app, BrowserWindow, ipcMain} = require('electron')
// Step 3 code additions - end
```

      appWindow.webContents.send('update-account-data', accountData)
    })

    // Initial Account Request -> Get account details on startup
    // Reference: https://xrpl.org/account_info.html
    const accountInfoResponse = await client.request({
      "command": "account_info",
      "account": address,
      "ledger_index": "current"
    })
    const accountData = prepareAccountData(accountInfoResponse.result.account_data)
    appWindow.webContents.send('update-account-data', accountData)

    // Step 3 code modifications - end
  })
}
```

As the account we want to query is known only after the user enters an address, we had to wrap our application logic into an event handler:

```javascript
ipcMain.on('address-entered', async (event, address) =>  {
  // ...
})
```

In addition to the subscription to the ledger stream we also can subscribe the client to specific addresses, and we use this feature here to subscribe to an account address which we are going to prompt the user for:

```javascript
await client.request({
  "command": "subscribe",
  "streams": ["ledger"],
  "accounts": [address]
})
```

> After this subscription our code attached listeners to the `ledgerClosed` and the `transactions` event. As soon as a `transaction` event is triggered, we do an `account_info` request to get the latest account status, as a transaction is an operation that changes the accounts state.

Reviewer: nit: wording
```suggestion
After this subscription our code attached listeners to the `ledgerClosed` and the `transactions` event. As soon as a `transaction` event is triggered, we do an `account_info` request to get the latest account status, as the transaction could have changed our account's state.
```

> In addition to the subscriptions we added each an initial `ledger` and `accountInfo` request to have some data at application startup, otherwise we would see empty fields until something happened on the ledger which would trigger one of our subscriptions.

Reviewer: nit: wording
```suggestion
In addition to the subscriptions we added an initial `ledger` and `accountInfo` request to have some data at application startup. Otherwise we would see empty fields until something happened on the ledger that triggered one of our subscriptions.
```

    </fieldset>

    <fieldset>
        <legend>Latest validated ledger stats</legend>
        Ledger Index: <strong id="ledger-index"></strong><br/>
        Ledger Hash: <strong id="ledger-hash"></strong><br/>
        Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br/>
    </fieldset>

    <dialog id="account-address-dialog">
        <form method="dialog">
            <div>
                <label for="address-input">Enter account address:</label>
                <input type="text" id="address-input" name="address-input" />
            </div>
            <div>
                <button type="submit">Confirm</button>
            </div>
        </form>
    </dialog>

</body>
```

6. To incorporate the refactored markup, handle the HTML dialog element and well as the new account data section replace the contents of `view/renderer.js` with the following code:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/3-account/view/renderer.js", language="js") }}

Now you need an XRPL account address to monitor. If you already have one or know where to find an example, you can now run the application by executing:

```console
npm run start
```

> If you are new to the XRPL and need an account address, [you can get accounts on the testnet](https://learn.xrpl.org/course/code-with-the-xrpl/lesson/create-accounts-and-send-xrp/). There you can also use the sandbox to issue XRP transactions, which then should show up in our app.

Reviewer: I'd recommend linking to the faucet here instead of a separate tutorial. They mostly just need an account, and the faucet page let's them do that. Otherwise I may get confused and try to start the other tutorial mid-way here.
```suggestion
If you are new to the XRPL and need an account address, [you can get accounts on the testnet](https://xrpl.org/xrp-testnet-faucet.html). There you can also use the sandbox to issue XRP transactions, which then should show up in our app.
```

Author: Makes sense!

    ipcRenderer.send('address-entered', address)
  },
  onUpdateAccountData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-account-data', callback)
  },

  // Step 4 code additions - start
  onUpdateTransactionData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-transaction-data', callback)
  }
  // Step 4 code additions - end
})
```

5. Modify `view/template.html` by adding a new fieldset below the ones that are already there:

```html
        ...
        Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br/>
    </fieldset>

    <!-- Step 4 code additions - start -->
    <fieldset>
        <legend>Transactions:</legend>
        <table id="tx-table">
            <thead>
            <tr>
                <th>Confirmed</th>
                <th>Type</th>
                <th>From</th>
                <th>To</th>
                <th>Value Delivered</th>
                <th>Hash</th>
            </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody></tbody>
        </table>
    </fieldset>
    <!-- Step 4 code additions - end -->

    <dialog id="account-address-dialog">
        <form method="dialog">
```

The table here will be filled dynamically with the accounts transactions.

> 6. Add the following code at the bottom of `view/renderer.js`:

Reviewer: This is missing a step 7 to add the custom code to the beginning of `renderer.js` from `4-tx-history/view/renderer.js`

The missing code snippet looks like:
```
// Step 4 code additions - start
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', openAccountAddressDialog);

function openAccountAddressDialog(){
    const accountAddressDialog = document.getElementById('account-address-dialog');
    const accountAddressInput = accountAddressDialog.querySelector('input');
    const submitButton = accountAddressDialog.querySelector('button[type="submit"]');

    submitButton.addEventListener('click', () => {
        const address = accountAddressInput.value;
        window.electronAPI.onEnterAccountAddress(address)
        accountAddressDialog.close()
    });

    accountAddressDialog.showModal()
}
// Step 4 code additions - end
```

(Without it, the transactions relating to the account don't populate)

Author: These lines should be there from Step 3. From the instructions it says to replace the file in Step 3 as the changes are so grave - but there were misleading Sections comments in Step 4, I've fixed that. Will leave it open for review, though.

Reviewer: Looks good - I think I missed it on my last pass through :)

By now we always query the user for an account address at application startup. We more or less have a monitoring tool for accounts that queries publicly available data. Because we want to have real wallet functionality including sending XRP, we will have to deal with private keys and seeds.

In this step we will query the user for a seed and a password they can use to access it later. In order to protect the password, we'll add a [salt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_(cryptography)) to the password. 

1. In the `library` folder, add a new file `5_helpers.js` with the following content:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/5_helpers.js", language="js") }}

2. Modify the import section at the top of `index.js` to look like this:

```javascript
const {app, BrowserWindow, ipcMain} = require('electron')
const fs = require('fs')
const path = require('path')
const xrpl = require("xrpl")
const { initialize, subscribe, saveSaltedSeed, loadSaltedSeed } = require('./library/5_helpers')

const TESTNET_URL = "wss://s.altnet.rippletest.net:51233"

const WALLET_DIR = 'Wallet'

const createWindow = () => {
```

> Note that we have reduced the imports to one line. The helper functions that we have written before now get used in our new helper class, which not only adds new functionality but encapsulates our subscriptions and initial requests in two helper functions. Those will be used as one-liners replacing a lot of lines that started to bloat our main logic file. 

Reviewer: nit: Shortening
```suggestion
Note that we have reduced the imports to one line since the new helper file imports and re-exports the other helper functions.
```

      saveSaltedSeed('../' + WALLET_DIR, seed, password)
    } else {
      seed = loadSaltedSeed('../' + WALLET_DIR, password)
    }

    const wallet = xrpl.Wallet.fromSeed(seed)

    const client = new xrpl.Client(TESTNET_URL)

    await client.connect()

    await subscribe(client, wallet, appWindow)

    await initialize(client, wallet, appWindow)
  })

  ipcMain.on('request-seed-change', (event) => {
    fs.rmSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR , 'seed.txt'))
    fs.rmSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR , 'salt.txt'))
    appWindow.webContents.send('open-seed-dialog')
  })

  // We have to wait for the application frontend to be ready, otherwise
  // we might run into a race condition and the open-dialog events
  // get triggered before the callbacks are attached
  appWindow.once('ready-to-show', () => {
    // If there is no seed present yet, ask for it, otherwise query for the password
    // for the seed that has been saved
    if (!fs.existsSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR, 'seed.txt'))) {
      appWindow.webContents.send('open-seed-dialog')
    } else {
      appWindow.webContents.send('open-password-dialog')
    }
  })
}
```

> Since we are now making this a full-fledged wallet, instead of asking the user for an address we will now be prompting the user for a seed and password to encrypt the seed. If there is already a seed, the user will only be asked for their password.```

Reviewer: nit: clean up extraneous code ticks
```suggestion
Since we are now making this a full-fledged wallet, instead of asking the user for an address we will now be prompting the user for a seed and password to encrypt the seed. If there is already a seed, the user will only be asked for their password.
```

    const seedDialog = document.getElementById('seed-dialog');
    const seedInput = seedDialog.querySelector('input');
    const submitButton = seedDialog.querySelector('button[type="submit"]');

    submitButton.addEventListener('click', () => {
        const seed = seedInput.value;
        window.electronAPI.onEnterSeed(seed)
        seedDialog.close()
    });

    seedDialog.showModal()
})

window.electronAPI.onOpenPasswordDialog((_event) => {
    const passwordDialog = document.getElementById('password-dialog');
    const passwordInput = passwordDialog.querySelector('input');
    const submitButton = passwordDialog.querySelector('button[type="submit"]');
    const changeSeedButton = passwordDialog.querySelector('button[type="button"]')

    submitButton.addEventListener('click', () => {
        const password = passwordInput.value;
        window.electronAPI.onEnterPassword(password)
        passwordDialog.close()
    });

    changeSeedButton.addEventListener('click', () => {
      passwordDialog.close()
      window.electronAPI.requestSeedChange()
    });

    passwordDialog.showModal()
});
```

Start up the application:

```console
npm run start
```

> On first run, It should first prompt you for an account seed and then for a password. After you have created a wallet this way, you should close the application and start it up a second time: On second run it should prompt you for the password, and you should see the same result as in the last step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On first run, It should first prompt you for an account seed and then for a password. 

You can generate a test account's seed via the [testnet faucet here](https://xrpl.org/xrp-testnet-faucet.html).

After you have created a wallet this way, you should close the application and start it up a second time: On second run it should prompt you for the password, and you should see the same result as in the last step.
```

> 

Reviewer: I found a small bug when you change the password - for that instance the transactions on display are displayed twice. I'm not sure why: 
<img width="1024" alt="image" src="https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/19694186/a163fe0b-b089-4e43-ac6b-2bf329ef1a69">

Author: Ok that was a tough one, the same event handler was added twice. I had to restructure the renderer so that the event handler is a named function at the root level and add {once: true} to the options parameter on addEventListener. Learning something every day...

Author: Renderer and tutorial (line 966+) have changed, I'll leave it open for now

Reviewer: Hahaha, small bugs from deep causes :P

          <li class="list-group-item">Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong></li>
        </ul>
      </div>

      <div class="tab-pane fade" id="transactions" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="transactions-tab">
        <h3>Transactions:</h3>
        <table id="tx-table" class="table">
          <thead>
          <tr>
            <th>Confirmed</th>
            <th>Type</th>
            <th>From</th>
            <th>To</th>
            <th>Value Delivered</th>
            <th>Hash</th>
          </tr>
          </thead>
          <tbody></tbody>
        </table>
      </div>

    </div>

  </main>

  <dialog id="seed-dialog">
    <form method="dialog">
      <div>
        <label for="seed-input">Enter seed:</label>
        <input type="text" id="seed-input" name="seed-input" />
      </div>
      <div>
        <button type="submit">Confirm</button>
      </div>
    </form>
  </dialog>

  <dialog id="password-dialog">
    <form method="dialog">
      <div>
        <label for="password-input">Enter password (min-length: 5):</label>
        <input type="text" id="password-input" name="password-input" />
      </div>
      <div>

>         <button type="submit">Confirm</button>

Reviewer: This is missing the "Change Seed" option used in the example code `6-styling/view/template.html` (Be careful copying directly because the relative imports are different for bootstrap and such)

Author: Done

      </div>
    </form>
  </dialog>

</body>

<script src="../bootstrap/bootstrap.bundle.min.js"></script>
<script src="renderer.js"></script>

</html>
````

Here we basically added the [Boostrap Framework]() and a little custom styling to our application. We'll leave it at that for this Step - to get the application running at this stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run start
```

> This time the application should display a dashboard like layout with the XRP logo and a navigation ono the left side, and a content area comprising most of the screen. You should be able to switch from the dashboard to the transactions list and back.

Reviewer: For some reason, when I run this, I get an error which causes the "Seed" / "Password" prompt to not appear.

```
Uncaught Error: Cannot read properties of null (reading 'addEventListener')
    at EventEmitter.emit (VM4 sandbox_bundle:2:35718)
    at Object.onMessage (VM4 sandbox_bundle:2:47921)
```

<img width="1024" alt="image" src="https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/assets/19694186/2a89b4e6-1b59-4185-9779-ef3b9ed400de">

Reviewer: [Archive.zip](https://github.com/XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal/files/12255084/Archive.zip)

Here's my code (You'll need to `npm i`)

Reviewer: I think this is caused by the missing button for `change seed` - re-adding that fixes the error.

Author: Done

To run the reference application found in `content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js` for this step, run:

```console
npm run styling
```

> 

Reviewer: Pausing here for today - ran out of time. Will continue tomorrow until end hopefully.

Author: As this was a bookmark without specific issues I'll just close this.

[`7-send-xrp/view/preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/7_preload.js),
[`7-send-xrp/view/renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/7_renderer.js),
[`7-send-xrp/view/template.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/7_send-xrp.html).

Up until now we have enabled our app to query and display data from the XRPL. Now it's time to actively participate in the ledger by enabling our application to send transactions. For now, we can stick to sending direct XRP payments because there are more complexities involved in sending issued tokens. After finishing this step the application should look like this:

![Screenshot: Step 7, send xrp dialog](img/javascript-wallet-7.png)

1. Create the file `library/7_helpers.js` and add the following contents:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/7_helpers.js", language="js") }}

> (There was no `6-helpers.js`, so don't worry!)

Reviewer: Add a space for newline
```suggestion

(There was no `6-helpers.js`, so don't worry!)
```

Reviewer 2: This seems to have been missed; it still needs the blank line.

[`8-domain-verification/view/8_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/8_renderer.js).

One of the biggest shortcomings of the wallet app from the previous step is that it doesn't provide a lot of protections or feedback for users to save them from human error and scams. These sorts of protections are extra important when dealing with the cryptocurrency space because decentralized systems like the XRP Ledger don't have an admin or support team one can ask to cancel or refund a payment if you made a mistake such as sending it to the wrong address. 

This step shows how to add some checks on destination addresses to warn the user before sending XRP.

One type of check we could make is to verify the domain name associated with an XRP Ledger address; this is called [account domain verification](xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification). When an account's domain is verified, we can could show it like this:

![Screenshot: Step 8, use domain verification](img/javascript-wallet-8.png)

> 1. In the `library` folder, add a new file `4_helpers.js`. Then add the following contents to that file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the `library` folder, add a new file `8_helpers.js`. Then add the following contents to that file:
```

})
// Step 8 code additions - end

sendXrpButtonEl.addEventListener('click', () => {
    modalDialog.hide()
    const destinationAddress = destinationAddressEl.value
    const destinationTag = destinationTagEl.value
    const amount = amountEl.value

    window.electronAPI.onClickSendXrp({destinationAddress, destinationTag, amount})
})
```

Run the following command:

```console
npm run start
```

Test your wallet app the same way you did in the previous steps. It should display a hint about the receiving account when opening up the "Send XRP" dialog and entering the address. To test domain verification, try entering the following addresses in the "To" box of the Send XRP dialog:

| Address                              | Domain       | Verified? |
|:-------------------------------------|:-------------|:----------|
| `rsA2LpzuawewSBQXkiju3YQTMzW13pAAdW` | `mduo13.com` | ✅ Yes    |
| `rf1BiGeXwwQoi8Z2ueFYTEXSwuJYfV2Jpn` | `xrpl.org`   | ❌ No     |
| `rPT1Sjq2YGrBMTttX4GZHjKu9dyfzbpAYe` | (Not set)    | ❌ No     |

To run the reference application, run:

```console
npm run domain-verification
```

## Summary 

> Congratulations, you now have created your own wallet application! In completing this tutorial, you have learned how to interact with the XRP Ledger - from sending simple requests up to doing actual transactions, all in an electron application.

Reviewer: I'd recommend expanding on this so it's at least 2 paragraphs. Otherwise the end seems too sudden considering how long each previous section was. It should call out each of the features you've added from every step so far. (Starting from Hello World we were able to add the ability to view the ledger, then you added...) - A numbered list calling back to each section would be good to remind them of all the cool stuff they did :)

I'd also recommend ending with a screenshot of the completed app like you showed at the beginning.

Author: Done, I'll leave it open for review

[`1-ledger-index/index.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/1_ledger-index.js),
[`1-ledger-index/view/preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_preload.js),
[`1-ledger-index/view/template.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_ledger-index.html),
[`1-ledger-index/view/renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_renderer.js).

Our first step was to have a running "Hello World" application. Now we want to expand on that so that the application can interact on a very basic level with the XRP Ledger and display some information about the current ledger state on the screen. After completing this step, the - for the time being unstyled - application should look like this:

![Screenshot: Step 1, hello world equivalent](img/javascript-wallet-1.png)

1. Update `index.js` by adding the following snippet in the import section at the top of the file below the `path` import:

> ```javascript

Reviewer: nit: I think this section should use a similar structure to the other "add this code here" where they show a bit of the part before and have comments marking the ends of the new code. (Got a bit confused about where to add it (initially tried replacing everything)

Author: Done

 * between the renderer Process and the main Process, loads a layout and performs the main logic
 */
const createWindow = () => {
```

This helper function does the following: It establishes a WebSocket connection to the XRP Ledger, calls the XRP Ledger API's [ledger method](ledger.html) and returns the ledger index from the response. We will wire up this function at the end of this step.

2. In order to attach a preloader script, modify the `createWindow` method in `index.js` by adding the following code:

```javascript
  // Creates the application window
  const appWindow = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 1024,
    height: 768,
    // Step 1 code additions - start
    webPreferences: {
      preload: path.join(__dirname, 'view', 'preload.js'),
    },
    // Step 1 code additions - end
  })
```

3. Now in the `view` folder, create a file `preload.js`with the following content:

```javascript
const { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } = require('electron');

// Expose functionality from main process (aka. "backend") to be used by the renderer process(aka. "backend")
contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {

>   // By calling "onUpdateLedgerIndex" in the frontend process we can now attach a callback function to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // By calling "onUpdateLedgerIndex" in the frontend process we can now attach a callback function
```

  },
  onEnterAccountAddress: (address) => {
    ipcRenderer.send('address-entered', address)
  },
  onUpdateAccountData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-account-data', callback)
  },

  // Step 4 code additions - start
  onUpdateTransactionData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-transaction-data', callback)
  }
  // Step 4 code additions - end
})
```

5. Modify `view/template.html` by adding a new fieldset below the ones that are already there:

```html
        ...
        Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br/>
    </fieldset>

    <!-- Step 4 code additions - start -->
    <fieldset>
        <legend>Transactions:</legend>
        <table id="tx-table">
            <thead>
            <tr>
                <th>Confirmed</th>
                <th>Type</th>
                <th>From</th>
                <th>To</th>
                <th>Value Delivered</th>
                <th>Hash</th>
            </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody></tbody>
        </table>
    </fieldset>
    <!-- Step 4 code additions - end -->

    <dialog id="account-address-dialog">
        <form method="dialog">
```

> The table here will be filled dynamically with the accounts transactions.

Reviewer 2: Fix typo

```suggestion
The table here will be filled dynamically with the account's transactions.
```

const xrpl = require("xrpl")
const { initialize, subscribe, saveSaltedSeed, loadSaltedSeed } = require('./library/5_helpers')

const TESTNET_URL = "wss://s.altnet.rippletest.net:51233"

const WALLET_DIR = 'Wallet'

const createWindow = () => {
```

Note that we have reduced the imports to one line since the new helper file imports and re-exports the other helper functions.

We also added a new constant containing the directory name where we are going to store our encrypted seed.

3. In `index.js` replace the existing `main` function with the following one:

```javascript
const main = async () => {
  const appWindow = createWindow()

  // Create Wallet directory in case it does not exist yet
  if (!fs.existsSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR))) {
    fs.mkdirSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR));
  }

  let seed = null;

  ipcMain.on('seed-entered', async (event, providedSeed) => {
    seed = providedSeed
    appWindow.webContents.send('open-password-dialog')
  })

  ipcMain.on('password-entered', async (event, password) => {
    if (!fs.existsSync(path.join(__dirname, WALLET_DIR , 'seed.txt'))) {
      saveSaltedSeed('../' + WALLET_DIR, seed, password)
    } else {
      try {

>         seed = loadSaltedSeed(WALLET_DIR, password)

Reviewer 2: Since you use `../` on line 856 you also have to use it here or you won't be able to load the seed correctly.

```suggestion
        seed = loadSaltedSeed('../' + WALLET_DIR, password)
```

![Screenshot: Step 6, style application with css](img/javascript-wallet-6.png)

1. In the project root, create a new folder `bootstrap` and add the following files into that directory:
[`bootstrap.bundle.min.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/bootstrap/bootstrap.bundle.min.js),
[`bootstrap.min.css`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/bootstrap/bootstrap.bundle.min.css),
[`custom.css`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/bootstrap/custom.css),
[`XRPLedger_DevPortal-white.svg`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/bootstrap/XRPLedger_DevPortal-white.svg)

2. Change the content of `view/template.html` to be the following code:

````html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">

  <title>XRPL Wallet Tutorial (JavaScript / Electron)</title>

  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../bootstrap/bootstrap.min.css"/>

>   <link rel="stylesheet" href="./custom.css"/>

Reviewer 2: Since you tell the user to put the `custom.css` file in the Bootstrap directory, the path here should match.

```suggestion
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../bootstrap/custom.css"/>
```

const { initialize, subscribe, saveSaltedSeed, loadSaltedSeed } = require('./library/5_helpers')
const { sendXrp } = require('./library/7_helpers')
```

3. Still in `index.js`, add an event listener handling the `send-xrp-event` from the frontend dialog:
```javascript
        await initialize(client, wallet, appWindow)
        // Step 7 code additions - start
        ipcMain.on('send-xrp-action', (event, paymentData) => {
          sendXrp(paymentData, client, wallet).then((result) => {
            appWindow.webContents.send('send-xrp-transaction-finish', result)
          })
        })
        // Step 7 code additions - start
```

4. Modify `view/preload.js` by adding two new functions:
```javascript
    onClickSendXrp: (paymentData) => {
      ipcRenderer.send('send-xrp-action', paymentData)
    },
    onSendXrpTransactionFinish: (callback) => {
      ipcRenderer.on('send-xrp-transaction-finish', callback)
    }
```

5. In `view/template.html`, add a button to toggle the modal dialog housing the "Send XRP" logic:
```html
    <div class="header border-bottom">
        <h3>
            Build a XRPL Wallet
            <small class="text-muted">- Part 7/8</small>
        </h3>

>         <button type="button" class="btn btn-primary" id="send-xrp-modal-button">
>             Send XRP
>         </button>

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: This one doesn't have the comment to point out which part is new.

```suggestion
        <!-- Step 7 code additions - start -->
        <button type="button" class="btn btn-primary" id="send-xrp-modal-button">
            Send XRP
        </button>
        <!-- Step 7 code additions - end -->
```

This step shows how to add some checks on destination addresses to warn the user before sending XRP.

One type of check we could make is to verify the domain name associated with an XRP Ledger address; this is called [account domain verification](xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification). When an account's domain is verified, we can could show it like this:

![Screenshot: Step 8, use domain verification](img/javascript-wallet-8.png)

1. In the `library` folder, add a new file `8_helpers.js`. Then add the following contents to that file:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/8_helpers.js", language="js") }}

The code in `8_helpers.js` looks up the account on the ledger by sending an [`account_info`](account_info.html) request.

If the account does exist, the code checks for the [`lsfDisallowXRP` flag](accountroot.html#accountroot-flags).

> 2. Import the new helper function in`index.js`:

Reviewer 2: Add missing space

```suggestion
2. Import the new helper function in `index.js`:
```

    appWindow.webContents.send('send-xrp-transaction-finish', result)
  })
})

// Step 8 code additions - start
ipcMain.on('destination-account-change', (event, destinationAccount) => {
  verify(destinationAccount, client).then((result) => {
    appWindow.webContents.send('update-domain-verification-data', result)
  })
})
// Step 8 code additions - end
```

3. Modify `view/preload.js` and add the following two functions to `'electronAPI'`:

```javascript
onDestinationAccountChange: (callback) => {
  ipcRenderer.send('destination-account-change', callback)
},
onUpdateDomainVerificationData: (callback) => {
  ipcRenderer.on('update-domain-verification-data', callback)
}
```

Finally, the code decodes the account's `Domain` field, if present, and performs domain verification using the method imported above.

4. Update the view logic - in `view/template.html` add the following lines just before the `<input>` element with `id="input-destination-address`:

```html
<div class="input-group mb-3">
    <!-- Step 8 code additions - start -->
    <div class="accountVerificationIndicator">
        <span>Verification status:</span>
    </div>
    <!-- Step 8 code additions - end -->

>     <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="rP4zcp52pa7ZjhjtU9LrnFcitBUadNW8Xz" id="input-destination-address">

Reviewer 2: Nit: the placeholder address in this sample code is different than in the version from the previous example (in step 7).

```suggestion
    <input type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="r9jEyy3nrB8D7uRc5w2k3tizKQ1q8cpeHU" id="input-destination-address">
```

```console
npm run start
```

Test your wallet app the same way you did in the previous steps. It should display a hint about the receiving account when opening up the "Send XRP" dialog and entering the address. To test domain verification, try entering the following addresses in the "To" box of the Send XRP dialog:

| Address                              | Domain       | Verified? |
|:-------------------------------------|:-------------|:----------|
| `rsA2LpzuawewSBQXkiju3YQTMzW13pAAdW` | `mduo13.com` | ✅ Yes    |
| `rf1BiGeXwwQoi8Z2ueFYTEXSwuJYfV2Jpn` | `xrpl.org`   | ❌ No     |
| `rPT1Sjq2YGrBMTttX4GZHjKu9dyfzbpAYe` | (Not set)    | ❌ No     |

To run the reference application, run:

```console
npm run domain-verification
```

## Summary 

Congratulations, you now have created your own wallet application! In completing this tutorial, you've not only learned how to interact with the XRP Ledger, but also which challenges this provokes when building a user facing application. So let's do a recap of what you have accomplished:

![Desktop wallet screenshot](img/javascript-wallet-preview.png)

0. First you set up the project and created a basic electron application.

> 1. In Step 1 you did your first ledger query and had the application display the latest closed ledger index, using electrons inter-process-communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In Step 1 you did your first ledger query and had the application display the latest closed ledger index, using Electron's inter-process-communication.
```

2. You expanded on that in Step 2, where you established a permanent subscription to the XRPL and had the application display ledger updates in real time.
3. In Step 3 you had the application monitor a specific account, prompting the user for an account address and having data flow bi-directionally from `ipcRender` to `ipcMain` and back.

> 4. You then added a dynamic list of the accounts transaction to the application.

Reviewer 2: Fix typo

```suggestion
4. You then added a dynamic list of the account's transaction to the application.
```

> 5. In Step 5 you implemented a password-protected seed vault, so that secrets that should remain secrets are not stored in environment variables.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Readers may not have realized that an alternative is to store the seed in an environment variable (and hey, that's already an improvement over hard-coding secret keys!) so I'd rather phrase this a little more "big picture" like.

```suggestion
5. In Step 5 you implemented a password-protected seed vault, so that secret information can remain protected when not in use.
```

6. Then you gave the application a facelift by adding bootstrap and restructuring the template.
7. In Step 7 you added wallet functionalities to what was so far a monitoring application by adding a dialog and the corresponding backend functionality to transfer XRP.

> 8. Finally, you stepped into some finder details of XRPL development by implementing the domain verification check.

Reviewer 2: Fix typo

```suggestion
8. Finally, you stepped into some finer details of XRPL development by implementing the domain verification check.
```

---
parent: build-apps.html
targets:
  - en
  - ja # TODO: translate this page
blurb: Build a graphical desktop wallet for the XRPL using JavaScript.
---
# Build a Desktop Wallet in JavaScript
<!-- STYLE_OVERRIDE: wallet -->

This tutorial demonstrates how to build a desktop wallet for the XRP Ledger using the JavaScript programming language, 
the Electron Framework and various libraries. This application can be used as a starting point for building a more 
complex and powerful application, as a reference point for building comparable apps, or as a learning experience to 

> better understand how to integrate XRP Ledger functionality into a larger project.

Reviewer 2: Per our contributing guidelines, don't hard-wrap text.

```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to build a desktop wallet for the XRP Ledger using the JavaScript programming language, the Electron Framework and various libraries. This application can be used as a starting point for building a more complex and powerful application, as a reference point for building comparable apps, or as a learning experience to better understand how to integrate XRP Ledger functionality into a larger project.
```

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you should meet the following requirements:

- You have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 14+ installed.
- You are somewhat familiar with modern JavaScript programming and have completed the [Get Started Using JavaScript tutorial](get-started-using-javascript.html).

> - You have at least some rough understanding of what the XRP Ledger, it's capabilities and of cryptocurrency in general. Ideally you have completed the [Basic XRPL guide](https://learn.xrpl.org/).

Reviewer 2: Fix wrong "its", simplify sentence, and add Oxford comma.

```suggestion
- You have some understanding of the XRP Ledger, its capabilities, and of cryptocurrency in general. Ideally you have completed the [Basic XRPL guide](https://learn.xrpl.org/).
```

### Source Code

You can find the complete source code for all of this tutorial's examples in the [code samples section of this website's repository]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/). After a `npm install` in this directory you can run the application for each step as described in the `scripts` section of  `package.json`, e.g, `npm run ledger-index`.  

> **Caution:** As the source code is grouped into one folder for each step, you have to be careful should you copy-and-paste directly from there. Some shared imports and file operations have different directories in these examples. This goes for everything to do with `library`, `bootstrap`, and `WALLET_DIR`.

Reviewer 2: Rephrase to hopefully make this sentence easier to understand:

```suggestion
**Caution:** Be careful if you copy-and-paste the source code from these directly from these files. The sample code is split up into different files per step, so some shared imports and files are in different directories in the examples. This especially applies to the `library`, `bootstrap`, and `WALLET_DIR` contents.
```

Author: @mDuo13 Perhaps it's sometimes German language thinking translated into English. You're right, its about a software tutorial and not a book for literature critics :)

## Rationale

> This tutorial will take you through the process of creating a XRP Wallet application from scratch. Starting with a simple,
> "Hello World" like example with minimal functionality, we will step-by-step add more complex features.

Reviewer 2: - Remove hard wrapping
- Avoid future tense
- Rephrase to make it simpler

```suggestion
This tutorial walks through the process of creating a XRP Wallet application from scratch. Starting with a minimal "Hello World" example, we add more complex features step by step.
```

We will use the well-established [Electron Framework](https://www.electronjs.org/) to let us use JavaScript to write this desktop application. 

## Goals

At the end of this tutorial, you will have built a JavaScript Wallet application that looks something like this:

![Desktop wallet screenshot](img/javascript-wallet-preview.png)

The look and feel of the user interface should be roughly the same regardless of operating system, as the Electron Framework allows us to write 

> cross-platform applications that are styled with HTML and CSS just like a web-based application.

Reviewer 2: Remove hard-wrapping.

```suggestion
The look and feel of the user interface should be roughly the same regardless of operating system, as the Electron Framework allows us to write cross-platform applications that are styled with HTML and CSS just like a web-based application.
```

The application we are going to build here will be capable of the following:

- Showing updates to the XRP Ledger in real-time.
- Viewing any XRP Ledger account's activity "read-only" including showing how much XRP was delivered by each transaction.
- Sending [direct XRP payments](direct-xrp-payments.html), and providing feedback about the intended destination address, including:
    - Whether the intended destination already exists in the XRP Ledger, or the payment would have to fund its creation.
    - If the address doesn't want to receive XRP ([`DisallowXRP` flag](become-an-xrp-ledger-gateway.html#disallow-xrp) enabled).

>     - If the address has a [verified domain name](https://xrpl.org/xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification) associated with it.

Reviewer 2: Use relative links within the site. (This helps make sure things to the right place in translation, and prevents internal links from being styled as external links.)

```suggestion
    - If the address has a [verified domain name](xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification) associated with it.
```

> The application in this tutorial _doesn't_ have the ability to send or trade [tokens](issued-currencies.html) or 
> use other [payment types](payment-types.html) like [Escrow](https://xrpl.org/escrow.html) or [Payment Channels](https://xrpl.org/payment-channels.html). However, it provides a foundation 
> that you can implement those and other features on top of.

Reviewer 2: - Remove hard-wrapping.
- Rephrase to simplify the sentence (I know this is copied from the other desktop wallet tutorial, so that's my bad.)

```suggestion
The application in this tutorial _doesn't_ have the ability to send [tokens](tokens.html) or use other [payment types](payment-types.html). However, it provides a foundation that you can implement those and other features on top of.
```

In addition to the above features, you'll also learn a bit about Events, IPC (inter-process-communication) and asynchronous (async) code in JavaScript.

## Steps

### 0. Project setup - Hello World

> 1. To initialize the project, create a package.json file with the following content:

Reviewer 2: Put file names in code font so they stand out.

```suggestion
1. To initialize the project, create a file named `package.json` with the following content:
```

**Full code for this step:**
[`0-hello/0_hello.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/0_hello.js),
[`0-hello/view/0_hello.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/0_hello.html),

### 1. Ledger Index

**Full code for this step:** 
[`1-ledger-index/index.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/1_ledger-index.js),
[`1-ledger-index/view/preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_preload.js),
[`1-ledger-index/view/template.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_ledger-index.html),
[`1-ledger-index/view/renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_renderer.js).

> Our first step was to have a running "Hello World" application. Now we want to expand on that so that the application can interact on a very basic level with the XRP Ledger and display some information about the current ledger state on the screen. After completing this step, the - for the time being unstyled - application should look like this:

Reviewer 2: Remove a couple unnecessary phrases (where would it display other than on screen? 😉) for simplicity.

```suggestion
Our first step was to have a running "Hello World" application. Now we want to expand on that so that the application can interact on a very basic level with the XRP Ledger and display some information about the current ledger state. After completing this step, the application should look like this:
```

  const ledgerRequest = {
    "command": "ledger",
    "ledger_index": "validated"
  }

  const ledgerResponse = await client.request(ledgerRequest)

  await client.disconnect()

  return ledgerResponse.result.ledger_index
}
// Step 3 code additions - end

/**
 * This is our main function, it creates our application window, preloads the code we will need to communicate
 * between the renderer Process and the main Process, loads a layout and performs the main logic
 */
const createWindow = () => {
```

This helper function does the following: It establishes a WebSocket connection to the XRP Ledger, calls the XRP Ledger API's [ledger method](ledger.html) and returns the ledger index from the response. We will wire up this function at the end of this step.

2. In order to attach a preloader script, modify the `createWindow` method in `index.js` by adding the following code:

```javascript
  // Creates the application window
  const appWindow = new BrowserWindow({
    width: 1024,
    height: 768,
    // Step 1 code additions - start
    webPreferences: {
      preload: path.join(__dirname, 'view', 'preload.js'),
    },
    // Step 1 code additions - end
  })
```

> 3. Now in the `view` folder, create a file `preload.js`with the following content:

Reviewer 2: Add missing space.

```suggestion
3. Now in the `view` folder, create a file `preload.js` with the following content:
```

```javascript
const { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } = require('electron');

// Expose functionality from main process (aka. "backend") to be used by the renderer process(aka. "backend")
contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  // By calling "onUpdateLedgerIndex" in the frontend process we can now attach a callback function to

>   // by making onUpdateLedgerIndex available at the window level.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what you mean by "attach a callback function to by making...". Is there a missing word here?

  // The subscribed function gets triggered whenever the backend process triggers the event 'update-ledger-index'
  onUpdateLedgerIndex: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-ledger-index', callback)
  }
})
```

> This preloader script is used to expose functions to the browsers window object which can be used to subscribe frontend logic to events broadcast from the main logic in `index.js`.

Reviewer 2: - Add missing apostrophe
- Rephrase to avoid "frontend/backend" terminology which hasn't been explained yet (it's later in this step)

```suggestion
This preloader script is used to expose functions to the browser's window object, so that the user interface can react to events broadcast from the main logic in `index.js`.
```

// Here we have to wait for the application to signal that it is ready
// to execute our code. In this case we create a main window, query
// the ledger for its latest index and submit the result to the main
// window where it will be displayed
app.whenReady().then(() => {
  // Step 1 code additions - start
  const appWindow = createWindow()
  
  getValidatedLedgerIndex().then((value) => {
    appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value)
  })
  // Step 1 code additions - end
  
})
```

Here we first call our helper function `getValidatedLedgerIndex()` and then broadcast an event named `update-ledger-index`. This attaches a payload containing the latest ledger information which can be handled by the frontend. 

This example shows how to do Inter Process Communication (IPC) in Electron. Technically, JavaScript has no true parallel processes or threading because it follows a single-threaded event-driven paradigm. Nonetheless Electron provides us with two IPC modules called `ipcMain` and `ipcRenderer`. We can roughly equate `ipcMain` to a backend process and `ipcRenderer` to a frontend process when we think in terms of client-server applications. It works as follows:

> 1. We started by creating a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events via the `ContextBridge` (`onUpdateLedgerIndex` in `view/preload.js`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. We started by creating a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events over the `ContextBridge` (`onUpdateLedgerIndex` in `view/preload.js`)
```

2. Then we make the function available by putting it in a preloader script to ensure it is loaded and can be used by the frontend.

> 3. On the frontend, we can then use that function to attach a callback that handles frontend updates when the event is dispatched. We could do this in the console, in a `<script>` tag in the frontend or in our case in a separate file.

Reviewer 2: Which file was this describing? `renderer.js`? It would be good to call that out explicitly. I'm also not sure what the point is of mentioning you could put it in a `<script>` tag or the console (the browser console? or system commandline? I'm unclear on this).

Maybe rephrasing it like this would be clearer? I might be missing something about the intent, though.

```suggestion
3. On the frontend, we can then use that function to attach a callback that handles frontend updates when the event is dispatched. In this case, we created a separate file, `renderer.js`, to define and attach the callback.
```

> 4. Lastly, we dispatch the event from the main logic in `index.js`via `appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value)`.

Reviewer 2: - Add missing space
- Avoid "via" and other Latin words

```suggestion
4. Lastly, we dispatch the event from the main logic in `index.js` using `appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value)`.
```

```html
<body>
    <!-- Step 2 code additions - start -->
    <h3>Build a XRPL Wallet - Part 2/8</h3>
    <b>Latest validated ledger stats</b><br />
    Ledger Index: <strong id="ledger-index"></strong><br />
    Ledger Hash: <strong id="ledger-hash"></strong><br />
    Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br />
    <!-- Step 2 code additions - end -->
</body>
```

5. Modify the `view/renderer.js` file to handle the new placeholders. Note that the renamed preloader function is now reflected in `window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerData`:

```javascript
const ledgerIndexEl = document.getElementById('ledger-index')
const ledgerHashEl = document.getElementById('ledger-hash')
const ledgerCloseTimeEl = document.getElementById('ledger-close-time')

window.electronAPI.onUpdateLedgerData((_event, value) => {
    ledgerIndexEl.innerText = value.ledger_index
    ledgerHashEl.innerText = value.ledger_hash
    ledgerCloseTimeEl.innerText = value.ledger_time
})
```

This should make our application listen to regular updates of the ledger and display them in the frontend.

Now run the application with the following command:

```console
npm run start
```

> This time the application should be the same as in the last step, with the difference that the latest ledger index value gets updated roughly very 3-5 seconds.

Reviewer 2: Since more changed than just the index updating (you're providing a "data" with more details!), I suggest updating this sentence:

```suggestion
The app now shows several details of the latest ledger and updates them when a new ledger is validated, roughly every 3-5 seconds.
```

[`3-account/view/renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_renderer.js),
[`3-account/view/template.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/3_account.html).

We now have a permanent connection to the XRPL and some code to bring the delivered data to life on our screen, it's time to add some "wallet" functionality by managing an individual account. 

We will ask the user for address of the account to monitor by using a HTML dialog element. We will furthermore refactor the application by encapsulating some functionality in a library. After finishing this step the application should look like this:

![Screenshot: Step 3, show account information](img/javascript-wallet-3.png)

1. In the project root, create a new directory named `library`. Inside this directory, create a file `3_helpers.js` with the following content:

`3_helpers.js`
{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/3_helpers.js", language="js") }}

> Here we define three utility functions that will transform data we receive from the ledger into flat value objects for easy digestion in the frontend code. As we progress in this tutorial, we will keep this pattern of adding functionality by adding files that are prefixed by the step number.

Reviewer 2: Avoid future tense, and clarify the organization just a bit more:

```suggestion
Here we define three utility functions that transform data we receive from the ledger into flat value objects for easy digestion in the frontend code. For this tutorial, we add new functionality in separate files for each step, but you could organize things differently.
```

> 2. Modify `index.js` and add `ipcMain` to the imports from the `require('electron')`line. Then add the new helper file at the bottom of the include section:

Reviewer 2: Add missing space. Also, it makes more sense to me to add it "on" the line than "from" the line.

```suggestion
2. Modify `index.js` and add `ipcMain` to the imports on the `require('electron')` line. Then add the new helper file at the bottom of the include section:
```

```javascript
// Step 3 code additions - start
const { app, BrowserWindow, ipcMain} = require('electron')
// Step 3 code additions - end
const path = require('path')
const xrpl = require("xrpl")
// Step 3 code additions - start
const { prepareAccountData, prepareLedgerData } = require('./library/3_helpers')
// Step 3 code additions - end

const TESTNET_URL = "wss://s.altnet.rippletest.net:51233"
```

3. Modify `index.js` in the following way:

```javascript
const main = async () => {
  const appWindow = createWindow()

>   ipcMain.on('address-entered', async (event, address) =>  {

Reviewer 2: I think this part is also new in step 3, but the comments don't call that out.

Author: Done

```javascript
await client.request({
  "command": "subscribe",
  "streams": ["ledger"],
  "accounts": [address]
})
```

After this subscription our code attached listeners to the `ledgerClosed` and the `transactions` event. As soon as a `transaction` event is triggered, we do an `account_info` request to get the latest account status, as the transaction could have changed our account's state.

In addition to the subscriptions we added an initial `ledger` and `accountInfo` request to have some data at application startup. Otherwise we would see empty fields until something happened on the ledger that triggered one of our subscriptions.

4. Now, add the following code to `preload.js`:

```javascript
const { contextBridge, ipcRenderer } = require('electron');

contextBridge.exposeInMainWorld('electronAPI', {
  onUpdateLedgerData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-ledger-data', callback)
  },

  // Step 3 code additions - start
  onEnterAccountAddress: (address) => {
    ipcRenderer.send('address-entered', address)
  },
  onUpdateAccountData: (callback) => {
    ipcRenderer.on('update-account-data', callback)
  }
  //Step 3 code additions - end
})
```

> Here we can observe a notable difference to the previous step. Until now we just used `ipcRenderer` to pick up on events from the main logic, now we are using it bidirectional to send events from the frontend to the main logic:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a notable difference from the previous step: previously we only used `ipcRenderer` to send events from the main logic to the frontend, but now we use it bidirectionally, also sending events from the frontend to the main logic:
```

    </fieldset>

    <fieldset>
        <legend>Latest validated ledger stats</legend>
        Ledger Index: <strong id="ledger-index"></strong><br/>
        Ledger Hash: <strong id="ledger-hash"></strong><br/>
        Close Time: <strong id="ledger-close-time"></strong><br/>
    </fieldset>

    <dialog id="account-address-dialog">
        <form method="dialog">
            <div>
                <label for="address-input">Enter account address:</label>
                <input type="text" id="address-input" name="address-input" />
            </div>
            <div>
                <button type="submit">Confirm</button>
            </div>
        </form>
    </dialog>

</body>
```

6. To incorporate the refactored markup, handle the HTML dialog element and well as the new account data section replace the contents of `view/renderer.js` with the following code:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/3-account/view/renderer.js", language="js") }}

Now you need an XRPL account address to monitor. If you already have one or know where to find an example, you can now run the application by executing:

```console
npm run start
```

> If you are new to the XRPL and need an account address, [you can get accounts on the testnet](https://xrpl.org/xrp-testnet-faucet.html). There you can also use the sandbox to issue XRP transactions, which then should show up in our app.

Reviewer 2: - Since the sample code is written to connect to Testnet, let's rephrase based on that—you could have a Mainnet address but be coding your own app for the first time and not have Testnet credentials.
- Link the transaction sender rather than just vaguely saying "sandbox"
- Instead "our" app, let's call it "your" app since the person following the tutorial is making it their own.

```suggestion

If you need a Testnet address, [you can get one from the faucet](xrp-testnet-faucet.html). Then you can paste that address into the [Transaction Sender](tx-sender.html) to send XRP transactions that your app can see.
```

Author: Ok, then I take that one, we had been switching from you to ours and back depending on who reviewed it...

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/library/4_helpers.js", language="js") }}

2. Now, in `index.js`, require the new helper function at the bottom of the import section like so:

```javascript
const { prepareAccountData, prepareLedgerData} = require('./library/3_helpers')
const { prepareTxData } = require('./library/4_helpers')
```

3. In `index.js`, update the listener function subscribed to the `transaction` event by adding the following snippet:

```javascript
// Wait for transaction on subscribed account and re-request account data
client.on("transaction", async (transaction) => {
  // Reference: https://xrpl.org/account_info.html
  const accountInfoRequest = {
    "command": "account_info",
    "account": address,
    "ledger_index": transaction.ledger_index
  }

  const accountInfoResponse = await client.request(accountInfoRequest)
  const accountData = prepareAccountData(accountInfoResponse.result.account_data)
  appWindow.webContents.send('update-account-data', accountData)

  // Step 4 code additions - start
  const transactions = prepareTxData([{tx: transaction.transaction}])
  appWindow.webContents.send('update-transaction-data', transactions)

>   // Step 4 code additions - end

Reviewer 2: This part doesn't seem to be enough on its own. Comparing mine to the version of `index.js` in `4-tx-history/`, I'm missing the "Initial Transaction Request" section (the steps as called out in the tutorial never have you add it) and I'm not sure if that or something else is why I was getting a `ReferenceError: transaction is not defined` error at this stage, and the transaction table not populating.

Author: It vanished from the tutorial somehow, I've re-added it

Reviewer 2: I don't think these changes got pushed to the branch—it looks like they're still missing here.

the Electron Framework and various libraries. This application can be used as a starting point for building a more 
complex and powerful application, as a reference point for building comparable apps, or as a learning experience to 
better understand how to integrate XRP Ledger functionality into a larger project.

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you should meet the following requirements:

- You have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 14+ installed.
- You are somewhat familiar with modern JavaScript programming and have completed the [Get Started Using JavaScript tutorial](get-started-using-javascript.html).
- You have at least some rough understanding of what the XRP Ledger, it's capabilities and of cryptocurrency in general. Ideally you have completed the [Basic XRPL guide](https://learn.xrpl.org/).

### Source Code

You can find the complete source code for all of this tutorial's examples in the [code samples section of this website's repository]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/).

## Rationale

> This tutorial takes you through the process of creating a XRP Wallet application from scratch. Starting with a simple,
> "Hello World" like example with minimal functionality, step-by-step we will add more and more complex features.
> 
> As JavaScript is a programming language that originated in the web browser ecosystem, it's not natively 
> supporting the creation of desktop applications. We have to pick a frameworks that enable us to write 
> desktop applications with JavaScript. For this tutorial we will use the [Electron Framework](https://www.electronjs.org/), as it is well 
> established, documented and will get us up and running without having to care for dependencies and stuff that would make 
> us divert too much from the goals of this tutorial.

Reviewer: nit: Shortening explanation
```suggestion
This tutorial will take you through the process of creating a XRP Wallet application from scratch. Starting with a simple,
"Hello World" like example with minimal functionality, we will step-by-step add more complex features.

We will use the well-established [Electron Framework](https://www.electronjs.org/) to let us use JavaScript to write this desktop application. 
```

- Showing how much XRP is set aside for the account's [reserve requirement](reserves.html).
- Sending [direct XRP payments](direct-xrp-payments.html), and providing feedback about the intended destination address, including:
    - Whether the intended destination already exists in the XRP Ledger, or the payment would have to fund its creation.
    - If the address doesn't want to receive XRP ([`DisallowXRP` flag](become-an-xrp-ledger-gateway.html#disallow-xrp) enabled).
    - If the address has a [verified domain name](https://xrpl.org/xrp-ledger-toml.html#account-verification) associated with it.

The application in this tutorial _doesn't_ have the ability to send or trade [tokens](issued-currencies.html) or 
use other [payment types](payment-types.html) like [Escrow](https://xrpl.org/escrow.html) or [Payment Channels](https://xrpl.org/payment-channels.html). However, it provides a foundation 
that you can implement those and other features on top of.

In addition to the above features, you'll also learn a bit about Events, IPC (inter-process-communication) 
and asynchronous (async) code in JavaScript.

## Steps

### 0. Project setup

> To initialize the project we will create a package.json file with the following content:

Reviewer: Changing the future-tense to instruct the reader to take this step.
```suggestion
To initialize the project, create a package.json file with the following content:
```

Author: Has been rewritten

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/package.json", language="js", lines="1-28") }}

> Here we define the libraries our application will use in the `dependencies` section as well as shortcuts for running our application in the `scripts` section. To install those dependencies, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we define the libraries our application will use in the `dependencies` section as well as shortcuts for running our application in the `scripts` section. 

After you create your package.json file, install those dependencies by running the following command: 
```

Reviewer: Separating the action item from the explanation so they don't miss the step.

Author: Has been rewritten

application to work. 

### 1. Hello XRP Ledger

**Full code for this step:** 
[`1_hello.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/1_hello.js),
[`view/1_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_preload.js),
[`view/1_hello.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_hello.html),
[`view/1_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_renderer.js).

Our first step is to write a "Hello World" like application, that interacts on a very basic level with the XRP Ledger 
and displays some high-level information about the current ledger state on the screen. Nothing too fancy so far, as we 
will take care of styling and GUI related coding in a later step:

![Screenshot: Step 1, hello world equivalent](img/javascript-wallet-1.png)

First, we will create an entrypoint for our application, for this we create the file `1_hello.js` with the following content:

> `1_hello.js`

Reviewer: I was a bit confused at this point because I thought that the "Hello World" application would incldue "Hello World" somewhere - (e.g. just proving that we can set up the desktop view correctly) 

Maybe it'd be better to call it "Basic view of the ledger" or to actually include a "Hello World" screen before any ledger work to isolate getting Electron working? (Not a big deal either way - just thought I'd flag)

Reviewer: This would also let you split up the part that creates the application window, and the part that calls the XRP Ledger's API into two steps so each can get their own explanation.

Author: This has been added to Step 0 / Setup which is now a real "Hello world!" application, Step 2 is now aptly called "Ledger Index"

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/1_hello.js", language="js") }}

This code has two parts: one that creates the application window and one that calls the XRP Ledger API's [ledger method](ledger.html). The code then broadcasts an event with the API response as the payload. The frontend picks up this event and uses the payload to display the index of most recently validated ledger.

> To display our results to the user, we need to create the view components that we specified in the `createWindow()` function. For this, we will create a `view` folder and add the following files there:

Reviewer: If there's ever an action the user should do - try to make it into a numbered list or bullet so it's very clear that you've switched into instruction mode instead of explaining mode. (Otherwise it's easy for them to miss that you were telling them to do something)

```suggestion
In order to make that work, we need to implement the views referenced in `createWindow()` to tell the frontend how to display the payload. 

1. Create a `view` folder next to your `package.lock` file.
2. In the `view` folder, add the following 3 files:
```

Author: Obsolete, as the instructions have been completely rewritten

<!-- MULTICODE_BLOCK_START -->

*view/1_preload.js*
{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_preload.js", language="js") }}

*view/1_hello.html*
{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_hello.html", language="html") }}

*view/1_renderer.js*
{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/1_renderer.js", language="js") }}

<!-- MULTICODE_BLOCK_END-->

> The file `view/1_preload.js` does the main wiring of the application. The file `view/1_hello.html` defines the template part of the view. The file `view/1_renderer.js` contains scripts used in the template; you could also have put these in the HTML file, but it's a good practice to separate them so the code is more readable.

Reviewer: These explanations seem like they'd make sense to include as one-sentence summaries of the files in-line with the code to copy.

Author: Removed

This example shows how to do Inter Process Communication (IPC) in Electron. Technically, JavaScript has no true parallel processes or threading, because it follows a single-threaded event-driven paradigm. Nonetheless Electron provides us with two IPC modules called `ipcMain` and `ipcRenderer`. We can roughly equate those two to a backend process and a frontend process when we think in terms of client-server applications. It works as follows:

> 1. Create a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events (in `view/1_preload.js`)
> 2. Make the function available by preloading it (webPreferences.preload during window creation)
> 3. Create a frontend view
> 4. Use that function in the frontend (e.g. 1_renderer.js, loaded in 1_hello.html) to attach a callback that handles frontend updates when the event is dispatched
> 5. Dispatch the event from the backend (e.g. appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value))

Reviewer: This section uses very action-oriented language and so may be confusing to the reader as they aren't sure if they should actually be following the steps. Instead, I'd recommend describing it as if it's happening to a 3rd party instead, like this:
```suggestion
1. We start by create a function that enables the frontend to subscribe to backend events (in `view/1_preload.js`)
2. Then we make the function available by preloading it (webPreferences.preload during window creation)
3. This creates a frontend view
4. On the frontend, we can then use that function to attach a callback that handles frontend updates when the event is dispatched (e.g. How `1_renderer.js` is loaded in `1_hello.html`)
5. Lastly, we dispatch the event from the backend (e.g. appWindow.webContents.send('update-ledger-index', value))
```

In the package.json file we have already defined some prepared commands to run our application according to the steps comprising the
structure of this tutorial. To get the application running at this early stage of development, run the following command:

```console
npm run hello
```

### 2.A. Show Ledger Updates by using WebSocket subscriptions

**Full code for this step:** 
[`2_async-subscribe.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/2_async-subscribe.js),
[`view/2_preload.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_preload.js),
[`view/2_async.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_async.html),
[`view/2_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_renderer.js).

> Our "Hello Ledger" application from Step 1. so far only shows the latest validated ledger sequence at the time when we opened it. So let's take things up a notch and add some dashboard like functionality where our wallet app will keep in sync with the ledger and display the latest specs and stats like a clock that is keeping track on time:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Our "Hello Ledger" application from Step 1. so far only shows the latest validated ledger sequence at the time when we opened it. So let's take things up a notch and add some dashboard like functionality where our wallet app will keep in sync with the ledger and display the latest specs and stats like a clock that is keeping track of time:
```

![Screenshot: Step 2, show ledger updates](img/javascript-wallet-2.png)

> The code has been refactored (`1_hello.js` to `2_async-subscribe.js`) so that the main logic now resides in a main() function. This allows us to handle the application ready event by using an one-liner at the end of the code. We will do such refactorings regularly along our journey in order to keep the code well managed and readable.

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure from this whether I should delete `1_hello.js` or how I should get the `2_async-subscribe.js` code. Please add explicit steps to copy code into the repo. 

(Is the expectation that I copy the code each time it's mentioned at the start of the section - or that I do it as we go through the instructions throughout?)

Reviewer: I'd recommend showing the user exactly what's changing in each section rather than just having them copy the whole files from scratch because it's hard to tell what we're changing when the whole files change. (Ex. `2_preload.js` is identical to `1_preload.js` - so no change would actually have to happen.)

Having the files behind the scenes with the "snapshots" like `1_preload.js`, `2_preload.js`, etc. makes sense to me - but we should probably just be creating `preload.js` and updating in place as we go so that each change is explained clearly to the person working their way through the tutorial.

Author: @JST5000, We had this issue of flip-flopping from "we" to "you" before, this was because of the code-along style of the original python tutorial. As this one incorporates more code, with electron and the extra password step, somehow that explanatory style with "now we have" crept in. I guess I will reformat the description to stick to the code-along style, including descriptions where necessary. then all three wallet tutorials conform to the same style.

This will include working on just one file (e.g. preload.js instead of 38_preload.js) without the numbers, which will be used only for reference. While we're on it, look if theres a dusty box of medals somewhere in the basement, this one turned out way more complex than expected :)

Author: Obsolete, this has been rewritten completely

[`view/2_async.html`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_async.html),
[`view/2_renderer.js`]({{target.github_forkurl}}/tree/{{target.github_branch}}/content/_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/view/2_renderer.js).

In Step 2.A. we used the [subscribe method](https://xrpl.org/subscribe.html) to get the latest changes on the XRPL as soon as they happen. This is the preferred way to get such updates, because it not only reduces the complexity of our application and the data we have to handle, but also is less resource intensive on the servers. 

For completeness's sake we will also implement a polling solution to get a feeling on how this would be done in cases where Websocket subscriptions are not an option.

The main difference is that instead of a subscription, The [ledger request](https://xrpl.org/ledger.html#ledger) with which we are familiar from Step 1. is used in an infinite loop:

{{ include_code("_code-samples/build-a-wallet/desktop-js/2_async-poll.js", language="js", lines="58-72") }}

To get the application running using polling, run the following command:

```console
npm run async-poll

> ```

Reviewer: Instead of including this in the same page - I'd recommend splitting it into a separate markdown file that can be linked to above, with a one sentence link like 

"If you'd prefer to use polling instead of subscription, you can see alternative steps to do that [here](LINK)."

That way you can avoid the A/B numbering which is not very standard, and avoid any confusion where people start following both sets of steps, but they only need to do one.

Author: I have removed this step, branching out this early instead of keeping it straight it likely leads to confusion, which is the opposite of what we are aiming at here.
